--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-103-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-103
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 1100 - 1349
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
New Zealand have agreed on focused Action Plans for kiwifruit, apples, and honey to improve
productivity, quality, and sectoral capabilities of these fruits’ growers in India.
The cooperation includes the establishment of Centres of Excellence, improved planting material,
capacity building for growers, collaborative research, technical support for orchard management,
post-harvest practices, supply chains and food safety.
Projects for apple cultivators and sustainable beekeeping practices will enhance production and
quality standards.
This is Paired with Market access for the selected agricultural products (Apples, Kiwifruit,
Manuka Honey) and Albumins from New Zealand in India. This access will be managed through a
Tariff Rate Quota (TRQ) system with Minimum Import Price and seasonal imports, ensuring
consumer choice while protecting domestic farmers. All TRQs are paired with delivery on
Agriculture Productivity Action Plans and monitored by a Joint Agriculture Productivity
Council, balancing market access with protection of sensitive domestic agricultural sectors.
Areas of cooperation under agriculture also include Horticulture, Honey, Forestry, Livestock,
Fisheries, Apiculture, and the Wine sector.
 
Enhanced Opportunities Beyond Goods
Services
Best-Ever Offer by New Zealand: Commitment across 118 services sectors, with Most-Favoured
Nation (MFN) treatment in 139 sectors.
Health & Traditional Medicine: For the first time, New Zealand has facilitated trade in Ayurveda,
yoga, and other traditional medicine services with India. This landmark provision promotes the
global recognition of India’s AYUSH systems, supports medical value travel, encourages
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 5/17

[Page 6]
collaboration in wellness services, and reinforces India’s position as a global hub for health,
wellness, and traditional medicine services. It gives centre stage to India’s AYUSH disciplines
(Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Sowa-Rigpa, Siddha, and Homeopathy) alongside Maori
Health practices.
Mobility & Education
Student Mobility: New Zealand signed Annex on Student Mobility and Post Study Work Visa
for the first time with any country. Indian students can work up to 20 hours per week while
studying, even if there are policy changes in future, with extended post-study work visas (STEM
Bachelor: 3 yrs; Master’s: up to 3 yrs; Doctorate: up to 4 yrs).
Professional Pathways: The FTA establishes a new Temporary Employment Entry (TEE) Visa
pathwaywith a quota of 5,000 visas for skilled Indiansfor stay upto 3 years. The sectors of interest to
India include iconic occupations like AYUSH practitioners, Yoga Instructors, Indian Chefs, and
Music Teachers). The other sectors of interest also include IT, Engineering, Healthcare, Education,
and Construction.
Working Holiday Visa: 1,000 young Indians annually can avail multiple entry in New Zealand for a
period of 12 months.
These provisions create unprecedented opportunities for Indian youth and professionals to gain
global exposure.
Investment and Economic Co-operation
FDI Commitment: New Zealand will invest USD 20 billion in India, strengthening long-term
economic ties.
Joint strategies to promote investment, research and innovation, technology flows, and skill
development, particularly in renewable energy, digital services, and modern infrastructure, are fully
covered.
A Rebalancing Clause is incorporated into the Agreement to provide a framework for addressing any
shortfall in investment delivery, thereby ensuring robust and tangible economic outcomes.
Organic Primary Products: Mutual Recognition Arrangement between the two sides will be
delivered in this agreement. Organic products which are expected to gain traction include Basmati rice,
Flax seeds, Arabica Cherry AB, Psyllium husk (Isabgol), Soyabean oil cake, Organic Black Tea etc.
Technical Assistance: Cooperation has been agreed in AYUSH, audio visual industries, tourism, sports
and traditional knowledge systems. The FTA promotes India’s AYUSH systems internationally,
encourages medical value travel, and positions India as a global wellness hub.
Cultural & Traditional Knowledge
A dedicated chapter on Culture, Trade, Traditional Knowledge, and Economic Cooperation
advances mutual cooperation to enable and further both parties' peoples' economic and cultural
aspirations.
Engagement with New Zealand’s indigenous Maori communities aims to promote cultural exchange
and mutual respect. This strengthens India’s soft power and global recognition of its heritage.
Regulatory & Institutional Provisions
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 6/17