--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-103-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-103
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 5
Word Range: 1 - 1245
Word Count: 1,245
--------------------

[Page 1]
Government of India
Press Information Bureau
Economy
India – New Zealand Free Trade Agreement Signed
Posted On: 27 APR 2026 5:13PM
  Key Takeaways
 
India- New Zealand FTA eliminates duty on 100% of Indian Exports
USD 20 billion investment commitment, strengthening long-term economic and strategic
cooperation.
The agreement places special emphasis on strengthening MSMEs and women-led enterprises.
India protects its key interests in dairy and agriculture; Huge win for labour intensive sectors
like textile and leather.
New Zealand facilitates Health and Traditional Medicine Services for the first time.
Student Mobility and Post Study Work Visa for STEM Graduates, Skilled Professionals; opens
new visa pathway for 5,000 skilled occupations.
 
 
Introduction
India has steadily expanded its global trade partnerships to strengthen economic growth, create jobs, and
enhance its global standing. In the past few years 9 Free Trade Agreements have been signed spanning 38
developed countries. The latest is a forward-looking FTA signed with New Zealand today, marking a
historic milestone in bilateral economic relations. It is a comprehensive framework encompassing market
access, agricultural productivity, investment, talent mobility, collaboration in sports, tourism, and people-
to-people ties. The FTA is designed to benefit manufacturers, farmers, MSMEs, women entrepreneurs,
students, and skilled professionals across both nations.
India and New Zealand announced negotiations for a Free Trade Agreement (FTA)on 16 March 2025and
concluded in a record 9 months, making this the fastest concluded free trade agreement. The signing of
FTA enhances market access and tariff preferences for Indian exports to New Zealand, while serving as
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 1/17

[Page 2]
a gateway to the wider Oceania and Pacific Island markets. The agreement opens opportunities for India
to emerge as a key supplier of skilled workforce, alongside prospects for future cooperation in areas such
as AYUSH and services such as Yoga Instructors, Indian Chefs, and Music Teachers, and services under
sector of interests like IT, Engineering, Healthcare, Education, and Construction.
India – New Zealand: Bilateral Trade Ties
India’s partnership with New Zealand is shaped by both economic realities and strong people-to-people
ties. Currently, New Zealand is India’s second-largest trading partner in Oceania.
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 2/17

[Page 3]
At USD 49,380, New Zealand is among the higher-income economies in Oceania. In 2024, New
Zealand’s imports stood at USD 47 billion, while exports were USD 42 billion. New Zealand invests
nearly 8% of its GDP annually overseas, with total overseas investment valued at USD 422.6 billion as of
March 2025.
Around 300,000 persons of Indian origin and NRIs live in New Zealand, making up nearly 5% of its
population. This diaspora acts as a cultural and economic bridge, supporting stronger bilateral ties and
demand for Indian goods and services.
This FTA builds on the socio-economic foundation aimed at creating new opportunities.
Merchandise Trade: Grew from USD 873 million in 2023–24 to USD 1.3 billion in 2024–25,
registering a 49% growth.
Merchandise Exports to New Zealand: Rose to USD 711 million in 2024–25, showing a positive
trend of 32%.
Services Trade: India’s services exports to New Zealand grew by 13% in 2024, reaching USD 634
million. Major sectors include travel, IT, and business services.
India and New Zealand merchandise bilateral trade increased from USD 855 Million in 2015-2016
to USD 1298 Million in 2024-2025. The exports increased by 130% whereas imports only increased
by 7.21% in 10 years. In 2024-25, the exports from India to New Zealand was higher than imports
from New Zealand, maintaining positive trade balance with the country.
Salient Features of the FTA
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 3/17

[Page 4]
The FTA eliminates duty on 100% of Indian Exports
A USD 20 billion investment commitment over 15 years strengthens long-term economic and
strategic cooperation.
Through Agricultural Productivity Partnership, the FTA collaborates with farmers to boost
productivity and integrate them in the global value chains.
The FTA boosts MSMEs and Jobs through Zero-duty access for labour-intensive sectors
including textiles, apparel, leather, footwear, gems & jewellery, engineering goods and processed
foods.
India has offered market access in 70.03% of the tariff lines while keeping 29.97 % tariff lines
in exclusion, which covers 95% of New Zealand's Bilateral Trade.
Certain products are kept in exclusion such as dairy (milk, cream, whey, yoghurt, cheese etc.),
animal products (other than sheep meat), vegetable products (onions, chana, peas, corn, almonds
etc.), sugar, artificial honey, Animal, vegetable or microbial fats and oils, Arms and Ammunition,
Gems and Jewellery, Copper and Articles (Cathodes, Cartridges, Rods, Bars, Coils etc.),
Aluminium and articles thereof (Ingots, billets, wire bars) among others.
30.00% of tariff lines will have immediate duty elimination, covering wood, wool, sheep meat,
leather-raw hides etc.
35.60% of tariffs are subject to phased elimination over 3, 5, 7, and 10 years, including petroleum
oil, malt extract, vegetable oils, and selected electrical and mechanical machinery, peptones etc.
4.37% of products face tariff reductions, such as wine, pharmaceutical drugs, polymers,
aluminium, iron and steel articles etc
0.06% fall under tariff rate quotas, including Mānuka honey, apples, kiwi fruit, and albumins
including milk albumin.
Enhanced Market Access for Indian Goods
Gains to India from FTA
The FTA provides duty-free access for 100% of India's exports to New Zealand, covering all tariff
lines, and is expected to significantly boost MSMEs and employment.
Enhanced competitiveness in labour intensive sectors like textiles and clothing, leather and
footwear, gems and jewellery, engineering goods, and processed foods.
India secures duty-free inputs for its manufacturing sector, including wooden logs, coking coal,
and waste and scraps of metals, lowering production costs and enhancing the global competitiveness
of Indian industry.
Reduced trade barriers and regulatory certainty will strengthen Indian manufacturing and global
value chain integration for MSMEs in textiles, apparel, engineering goods, chemicals, food
processing, and electronics.
Structured cooperation for MSMEs includes enhanced access to trade-related information, export
readiness programmes, and linkages with New Zealand's SME ecosystem, with specific focus on
start-ups and enterprises owned by women and youth.
Gains for Agriculture, Technology Cooperation, and Farmer Income Growth
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 4/17

[Page 5]
New Zealand have agreed on focused Action Plans for kiwifruit, apples, and honey to improve
productivity, quality, and sectoral capabilities of these fruits’ growers in India.
The cooperation includes the establishment of Centres of Excellence, improved planting material,
capacity building for growers, collaborative research, technical support for orchard management,
post-harvest practices, supply chains and food safety.
Projects for apple cultivators and sustainable beekeeping practices will enhance production and
quality standards.
This is Paired with Market access for the selected agricultural products (Apples, Kiwifruit,
Manuka Honey) and Albumins from New Zealand in India. This access will be managed through a
Tariff Rate Quota (TRQ) system with Minimum Import Price and seasonal imports, ensuring
consumer choice while protecting domestic farmers. All TRQs are paired with delivery on
Agriculture Productivity Action Plans and monitored by a Joint Agriculture Productivity
Council, balancing market access with protection of sensitive domestic agricultural sectors.
Areas of cooperation under agriculture also include Horticulture, Honey, Forestry, Livestock,
Fisheries, Apiculture, and the Wine sector.
 
Enhanced Opportunities Beyond Goods
Services
Best-Ever Offer by New Zealand: Commitment across 118 services sectors, with Most-Favoured
Nation (MFN) treatment in 139 sectors.
Health & Traditional Medicine: For the first time, New Zealand has facilitated trade in Ayurveda,
yoga, and other traditional medicine services with India. This landmark provision promotes the
global recognition of India’s AYUSH systems, supports medical value travel, encourages
7/6/26, 2:50 PM Press Note Details: Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressNoteDetails.aspx?NoteId=158370&ModuleId=3&reg=3&lang=1 5/17