--- PAGE 1 ---
DIRECTIVES
DIRECTIVE (EU) 2022/2464 OF THE EUR OPEAN P ARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 14 December 2022
amending Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, Directiv e 2004/109/EC, Directiv e 2006/43/EC and Directiv e 
2013/34/EU, as regards cor porate sust ainability repor ting 
(T ext with EEA relevance) 
THE EUR OPEAN P ARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUR OPEAN UNION,
Havi ng regar d to the T reaty on the Functioning of the European U nion, and in par ticular Ar ticles 50 and 114 thereof,
Havi ng regar d to the proposal from the European Commission,
Af ter transmission of the draf t legislative act to the national parliaments,
Havi ng regar d to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (
1
) ,
A cting in accordance with the ordinar y legislative procedure (
2
) ,
Whereas:
(1) In its communication of 11 December 2019 entitled ‘ The European Green Deal’ (the ‘Green Deal’), the European 
Commission made a commitment to review the provisions concer ning non-fi nancial repor ting of Directive 
2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (
3
) . The Green Deal is the new gro wth strategy of the 
U nion. It aims to transf or m the U nion into a moder n, resource-efficient and competitive econom y with no net 
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) by 2050. It also aims to prote ct, conser ve and enhance the Union's natural 
capital, and prote ct the health and well-being of U nion citizens from en vironment-related r isks and impacts. The 
Green Deal aims to decouple economic gro wth from resource use, and ensure that all regions and Union citizens 
par ticipate in a socially just transition to a sustainable economic syste m whereby no person and no place is lef t 
behind. It will contr ibut e to the objective of building an economy that w ork s f or the people, strengthening the 
U nion’s social market economy , helping to ensure that it is ready f or the future and that it delivers stability , jobs, 
gro wth and sustainable inv estment.
These goals are especially im por tant consider ing the socio-economic damage caused by the CO VID-19 pandemic 
and the need f or a sustainable, inclusive and fair reco ver y . Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European P arliament 
and of the Council (
4
) makes the objective of climat e neutrality by 2050 binding in the U nion. Moreover , in its 
Communication of 20 Ma y 2020 entitled ‘EU Biodiversity Strategy f or 2030: Br inging nature back into our lives’, 
the Commission commits to ensur ing that by 2050 all of the world’s ecosystem s are restored, resilient and 
adequately prot ected. That strategy aims to put Europe’s biodiversity on a path to recovery by 2030.
(
1
) OJ C 517, 22.12.2021, p. 51.
(
2
) P osition of the European P arliament of 10 November 2022 (not yet published in the Official Jour nal) and decision of the Council of 
28 November 2022.
(
3
) Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, 
consolidated financia l statements and related repor ts of cer tain types of under takings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19).
(
4
) Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 30 June 2021 establishing the framewo rk f or achieving 
climate neutrality and amending Regulations (EC) No 401/2009 and (EU) 2018/1999 (‘European Climate Law’) (OJ L 243, 9.7.2021, 
p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/15  

--- PAGE 2 ---
(2) In its Communication of 8 March 2018 entitled ‘ A ction Plan: Financing Sustainable Growth’ (the ‘ A ction Plan on 
Financing Sustainable Gro wth’), the Commission set out measures to achi eve the f ollowing objectives: reor ient 
capital f lows to wards sustainable inv estment in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive gro wth, manage fi nancial 
r isks stemming from climat e chang e, resource depletion, en vironmental degradation and social issues, and f oster 
transparency and long-t er mism in fi nancial and economic activity . The disclosure by cer tain catego r ies of 
under takings of relevant, comparab le and reliable sustainability inf or mation is a prerequisite f or meeting those 
objectives. The European P arliament and the Council have adop ted a number of legislative acts as par t of the 
imp lementation of the A ction Plan on Financing Sustainable Growt h. Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European 
P arliament and of the Council (
5
) govern s how financial mark et par ticipants and fi nancial advisers are to disclose 
sustainability inf or mation to end invest ors and asset owners.
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European P arliament and of the Council (
6
) creat es a classif ication system of 
en vironmentally sustainable economic activities with the aim of scaling up sustainable inv estments and combatting 
greenwashing of financial products that unduly claim to be sustainable. Regulation (EU) 2019/2089 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (
7
) , compl emented by Commission Delegat ed Regulations (EU) 
2020/1816 (
8
) , (EU) 2020/1817 (
9
) and (EU) 2020/1818 (
10
) , introduces en vironmental, social and governance 
(‘ESG’) disclosure requirements f or benc hmark administrators and minimum standards f or the constr uction of EU 
Climate T ransition Benc hmark s and EU P ar is-aligned Benc hmark s.
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
11
) requires larg e institutions which 
hav e issued secur ities that are admitt ed to trading on a regulated mark et to disclose inf or mation on ESG r isks from 
28 June 2022 . The pr udential framework f or investment fir ms established by Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 of the 
European P arliament and of the Council (
12
) and Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (
13
) contains provisions concer ning the introduction of an ESG r isk dimension in the Super visor y Review 
and Evaluation Process (‘SREP’) by compet ent author ities, and contains ESG r isk disclosure requirements f or 
inve stment fir ms, applicable from 26 December 2022 . On 6 July 2021 , the Commission also adopt ed a proposal 
f or a Regulation of the European P arliament and of the Council on European green bonds, f ollowing up on the 
A ction Plan on Financing Sustainable Gro wth.
(
5
) Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosures 
in the financial ser vices secto r (OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1).
(
6
) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framewo rk t o 
fac ilitate sustainable inv estment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (OJ L 198, 22.6.2020, p. 13).
(
7
) Regulation (EU) 2019/2089 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 amending Regulation (EU) 
2016/1011 as regar ds EU Climate T ransition Benchmarks, EU P ar is-aligned Benchma rk s and sustainability-related disclosures f or 
benc hmark s (OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 17).
(
8
) Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European 
P arliament and of the Council as regar ds the explanation in the benchmark statement of how environmental, social and govern ance 
fac tors are ref lected in each benchm ark provided and published (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 1).
(
9
) Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2020/1817 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European 
P arliament and of the Council as regar ds the minimum content of the explanation on how environment al, social and go ver nance 
fac tors are ref lected in the benchmark methodology (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 12).
(
10
) Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council as regar ds minimum standards f or EU Climate T ransition Benchmarks and EU P ar is-aligned 
Benchmarks (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 17).
(
11
) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on pr udential requirements f or credit 
institutions and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
(
12
) Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the pr udential requirements of 
investment fir ms and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No 806/2014 
(OJ L 314, 5.12.2019, p. 1).
(
13
) Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the pr udential super vision of 
investment fir ms and amending Directives 2002/87/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2011/61/EU, 2013/36/EU, 2014/59/EU and 2014/65/EU 
(OJ L 314, 5.12.2019, p. 64).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/16 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 3 ---
(3) In its Communication of 17 June 2019 entitled ‘Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting: Supplement on repor ting 
climat e-related inf or mation’ (‘Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation’), the Commission highlighted the 
benefits f or companies of repor ting on climate-relat ed inf or mation par ticularly by increasing awareness and 
understanding of climate -related r isks and oppor tunities within the compan y , diversifying the inve stor base, 
creating a lo wer cost of capital and impro ving constr uctive dialogue with all stakeho lders. Fur ther more, diversity on 
compan y boards might hav e an inf luence on decision-making, cor porate governance and resilience.
(4) In its conclusions of 5 December 2019 on the deepening of the Capital Mark ets Union, the Council stressed the 
imp or tance of reliable, comparable and relevant inf or mation on sustainability r isks , oppor tunities and im pacts, and 
called on the Commission to consider the development of a European non-fi nancial repor ting standard.
(5) In its resolution of 29 Ma y 2018 on sustainable finance (
14
) , the European Parliament called f or the fur ther 
development of non-financial repor ting requirements in the framework of Directive 2013/34/EU. In its resolution 
of 17 December 2020 on sustainable cor porate governance (
15
) , the European P arliament welcomed the 
Commission’s commitment to review Directive 2013/34/EU and expressed the need to set up a compreh ensive 
U nion framework on non-fi nancial repor ting that contains mandatory U nion non-fi nancial repor ting standards. 
The European P arliament called f or the expansion of the scope of the repor ting requirements to additional 
catego r ies of under takings and f or the introduction of an audit requirement.
(6) In its resolution of 25 Sept ember 2015 entitled ‘ T ransf or ming our w orld: the 2030 Agen da f or Sustainable 
Development’ (the ‘2030 Agen da’) the Unit ed Nations (UN) General Assembly adopt ed a new g lobal sustainable 
development framew ork . The 2030 Agen da has at its core the UN Sustainable Development Goals (‘SDGs’ ) and 
co vers the three dimensions of sustainability : economic, social and en vironmental. The Commission 
Communication of 22 No vember 2016 entitled ‘Next ste ps f or a sustainable European future: European action f or 
sustainability’ linked the SDGs to the U nion policy framew ork to ensure that all Union actions and policy initiatives, 
both within and outside the U nion, take those goals on board at the outset. In its conclusions of 20 June 2017 on ‘ A 
sustainable European future: The EU response to the 2030 Agenda f or Sustainable Development’, the Council 
conf ir med the commitment of the Union and its Member Stat es to the implementation of the 2030 Agen da in a 
full, coherent, comprehensive, integrat ed and effective manner , in close cooperation with par tners and other 
stake holders.
(7) Directive 2014/95/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council (
16
) amended Directive 2013/34/EU as regards 
disclosure of non-fi nancial inf or mation by cer tain larg e under takings and groups. Directive 2014/95/EU introduced 
a requirement on under takings to repor t inf or mation on, as a minimum, en vironmental, social and emplo y ee 
matte rs, respect f or human r ights, anti-cor r uption and br iber y matters. With regard to those topics, Directive 
2014/95/EU required under takings to disclose inf or mation under the f ollowi ng repor ting areas: business model; 
policies, including due diligence processes; the outcome of those policies; r isks and r isk management; and ke y 
performa nce indicator s relevant to the business.
(8) Many stak eholders consider the term ‘non-financial’ to be inaccurate , in par ticular because it im plies that the 
inf or mation in question has no financia l relevance. Increasing ly , however , such inf or mation does have financial 
relevance. Many organisations, initiatives and practitioners in the field of sustainability repor ting refer to 
‘sustainability inf or mation’. It is theref ore preferable to use the term ‘sustainability inf or mation’ in place of ‘non- 
fi nancial inf or mation’. Directive 2013/34/EU should theref ore be amended to take account of that chang e in 
term inology .
(
14
) OJ C 76, 9.3.2020, p. 23.
(
15
) OJ C 445, 29.10.2021, p. 94.
(
16
) Directive 2014/95/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards 
disclosure of non-fi nancial and diversity inf or mation by cer tain larg e under takings and groups (OJ L 330, 15.11.2014, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/17  

--- PAGE 4 ---
(9) If under takings car r ied out better sustainability repor ting, the ultimate beneficiar ies w ould be individual citizens and 
sav ers, including trade unions and w orke rs ’ representatives who would be adequate ly inf or med and theref ore able to 
bette r engag e in social dialogue. Sav ers who want to inve st sustainably will hav e the oppor tunity to do so, while all 
citizens w ould benefi t from a stable, sustainable and inclusive economic system . T o realise such benefits, the 
sustainability inf or mation disclosed in the annual repor ts of under takings first has to reach two pr imar y groups of 
users. The first group of users consists of invest ors, including asset managers, who want to bette r understand the 
r isks and oppor tunities that sustainability issues pose f or their inv estments and the impact s of those investments on 
people and the en vironment. The second group of users consists of civil society actors , including non-go ver nmental 
org anisations and social par tners, which wish to bett er hold under takings to account f or their im pacts on people and 
the environment. Other stak eholders might also make use of sustainability inf or mation disclosed in annual repor ts, 
in par ticular to f oster comparab ility across and within mark et sectors .
The business par tners of under takings, including custome rs, might rely on sustainability inf or mation to understand 
and, where necessar y , repor t on their sustainability r isks and impacts throughout their own value chains. P olicy 
make rs and en vironmental agencies can use such inf or mation, in par ticular on an aggreg ate basis, to monitor 
en vironmental and social trends, to contr ibut e to en vironmental accounts, and to inf or m public policy . Few 
individual citizens and consumers directly consult under takings’ annual repor ts, but the y might use sustainability 
inf or mation indirectly , f or exam ple, when consider ing the advice or opinions of fi nancial advisers or non- 
governmental orga nisations. Many inve stors and asset managers purchase sustainability inf or mation from third- 
par ty data providers, who collect inf or mation from var ious sources, including public cor porat e repor ts.
(10) The mark et f or sustainability inf or mation is rapidly gro wing, and the role of third-par ty data provid ers is gainin g in 
imp or tance given the new oblig ations that inve stors and asset manage rs need to fulfil. With the increased av ailability 
of disaggregat ed data, sustainability inf or mation should come at a more reasonable cost. The amendments to 
Directive 2013/34/EU provided f or in this amending Directive are expecte d to increase the comparability of data 
and har monise standards. It is expecte d that the practices of third-par ty data providers will impro ve and that 
exper tise will grow in this area, with a poten tial f or job creation.
(11) There has been a ver y significant increase in demand f or cor porate sustainability inf or mation in recent years, 
especially on the par t of the inve stment community . That increase in demand is dr iven by the c hanging nature of 
r isks to under takings and growing invest or awar eness of the financia l imp lications of those r isks . That is especially 
the case f or climat e-related financial r isks . There is also gro wing awar eness of the r isks and oppor tunities f or 
under takings and f or investments resulting from other en vironmental issues, such as biodiversity loss, and from 
health and social issues, including child labour and f orced labour . The increase in demand f or sustainability 
inf or mation is also dr iven by the growth in inv estment products that explicitly seek to meet cer tain sustainability 
standards or achi eve cer tain sustainability objectives and to ensure coherence with the ambition of the P ar is 
Agreement under the U nited Nations Framew ork Conv ention on Climate Change adopt ed on 12 December 2015
(the ‘Pari s Agreement ’), the UN Conv ention on Biological Diversity and U nion policies. P ar t of that increase is the 
logical consequence of previously adopt ed Union legislation, notably Regulations (EU) 2019/2088 and (EU) 
2020/852. Some of that increase would have happened in an y case, due to fa st-changing citizen aware ness, 
consumer preferences and mark et practices. The CO VID-19 pandemic has fur ther accelerat ed the increase in users’ 
inf or mation needs, in par ticular as it has exposed the vulnerabilities of work ers and under takings’ value chains. 
Inf or mation on en vironmental im pacts is also relevant in the context of mitigating future pandemics, with human 
disturbance of ecosystems being increasing ly linked to the occur rence and spread of diseases.
(12) U nder takings themselves stand to benefit from car r ying out high-quality repor ting on sustainability matt ers. The 
gro wth in the number of investment products that aim to pursue sustainability objectives means that good 
sustainability repor ting can enhance an under taking’s access to financial capital. Sustainability repor ting can help 
under takings to identify and manag e their o wn r isks and oppor tunities relat ed to sustainability matt ers. It can 
provid e a basis f or bett er dialogue and communication between under takings and their stakeholders, and can help 
under takings to impro ve their reputation. Moreover , a consistent basis f or sustainability repor ting in the f or m of 
sustainability repor ting standards w ould lead to relevant and sufficient inf or mation being provi ded and thus 
signif icantly decrease ad hoc requests f or inf or mation.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/18 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 5 ---
(13) The Commission repor t of 21 Apr il 2021 on the review clauses in Directives 2013/34/EU, 2014/95/EU, 
and 2013/50/EU and its accompan ying fitness c heck on the EU framewor k f or public repor ting by companies 
(‘Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness c heck’) identified problems as to the 
effe ctiveness of Directive 2014/95/EU. There is signif icant evidence that many under takings do not disclose 
mater ial inf or mation on all major sustainability-related topics, including climate -related inf or mation such as all 
GHG emissions, and fa ctors that affect biodiversity . The repor t also identif ied the limited compar ability and 
reliability of sustainability inf or mation as signif icant problems. Ad ditionally , man y under takings from which users 
need sustainability inf or mation are not oblig ed to repor t such inf or mation. A ccording ly , there is a clear need f or a 
robust and aff ordable repor ting framework that is accompanied by eff ective auditing practices to ensure the 
reliability of data and av oid greenwashing and double counting.
(14) In the absence of policy action, the g ap between users’ inf or mation needs and the sustainability inf or mation 
provid ed by under takings is expect ed to grow . That g ap has signif icant nega tive consequences. Invest ors are unable 
to tak e suff icient account of sustainability-relate d r isks and oppor tunities in their investment decisions. The 
aggregation of multiple inv estment decisions that do not take adequate account of sustainability-related r isks has 
the poten tial to creat e system ic r isks that threaten financial stability . The European Central Bank (ECB) and 
internati onal org anisations, such as the Financial Stability Board, hav e dra wn att ention to those systemic r isks, in 
par ticular as regards climat e. Invest ors are also less able to c hannel fi nancial resources to under takings and 
economic activities that address and do not exacerbate social and environmental problems, which under mines the 
objectives of the Green Deal, the A ction Plan on Financing Sustainable Growth and the Par is Agreement. Non- 
governmental organisations, social par tners, communities affect ed by under takings’ activities, and other 
stake holders are less able to hold under takings accountable f or their impa cts on people and the environment. This 
creat es an accountability def icit and could lead to lower levels of citizen tr ust in businesses, which in tur n could 
hav e negativ e impa cts on the effi cient functioning of the social mark et econom y . The lack of generally accept ed 
metr ics and methods f or measur ing, valuing, and managing sustainability-related r isks is also an obstacle to the 
eff or ts of under takings to ensure that their business models and activities are sustainable. The lac k of sustainability 
inf or mation provi ded by under takings also limits the ability of stake holders, including civil society actors, trade 
unions and w orke rs’ representatives, to enter into dialogue with under takings on sustainability matt ers.
(15) The Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness c heck also identified a signif icant 
increase in requests to under takings f or inf or mation about sustainability matte rs aimed at addressing the existing 
inf or mation g ap between users’ inf or mation needs and the av ailable cor porate sustainability inf or mation. In 
addition, ongoing expectations on under takings to use a var iety of diffe rent framew ork s and standards are lik ely to 
continue and ma y even intensify as the value placed on sustainability inf or mation continues to gro w . In the absence 
of policy action to build consensus on the inf or mation that under takings should repor t, there will be signif icant 
increases in term s of cost and burden f or repor ting under takings and f or users of such inf or mation.
(16) The existing inf or mation gap makes it more like ly that individual Member Stat es will introduce increasing ly 
diverg ent national r ules or standards. Diff erent repor ting requirements in differ ent Member State s could create 
additional costs and compl exity f or under takings operating across borders and theref ore under mine the internal 
mark et, and could under mine the r ight of establishment and the free mov ement of capital across the U nion. Such 
differ ent repor ting requirements could also mak e repor te d inf or mation less comparable across borders, 
under mining the capital mark ets union.
(17) Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU apply to larg e under takings that are public-interest entities with an 
av erage number of emplo y ees in excess of 500, and to public-interest entities that are parent under takings of a larg e 
group with an av erage number of emplo y ees in excess of 500 on a consolidate d basis, respectively . In view of the 
gro wth of users’ needs f or sustainability inf or mation, additional catego r ies of under takings should be required to 
repor t sustainability inf or mation. It is theref ore appropr iate to require all larg e under takings and all under takings, 
excep t micro under takings, whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion to repor t 
sustainability inf or mation. The provisions of this amending Directive amending Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 
2013/34/EU explicitly set out the scope of the repor ting requirements with reference to Ar ticles 2 and 3 of Directive 
2013/34/EU. Theref ore, they do not simplify or modify another requirement and the restr iction of exem ptions f or 
public-inte rest entities provided f or in Ar ticle 40 of Directive 2013/34/EU does not apply . In par ticular , public- 
inter est entities should not be treated as larg e under takings f or the pur poses of the application of the sustainability 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/19  

--- PAGE 6 ---
repor ting requirements. A ccording ly , small and medium-sized under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading 
on a regulated market in the U nion that are public-inte rest entities should be allowed to repor t in accordance with 
the sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings. In addition, all under takings that 
are parent under takings of larg e groups should prepare sustainability repor ting at group level. Moreover , since 
Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 ref ers to Ar ticle 19a and Ar ticle 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU, the 
under takings added to the scope of the sustainability repor ting requirements will also ha ve to compl y with Ar ticle 8 
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.
(18) The requirement provided f or in this amending Directive that also large under takings whose secur ities are not 
admitte d to trading on a regulate d market in the U nion should disclose inf or mation on sustainability matters is 
mainly justified by concer ns about the im pacts and accountability of such under takings, including through their 
value c hain. In this respect, all large under takings should be subject to the same requirements to repor t 
sustainability inf or mation publicly . In addition, fi nancial mark et par ticipants also need inf or mation from those larg e 
under takings whose secur ities are not admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion.
(19) The requirement provid ed f or in this amending Directive that third-countr y under takings whose secur ities are 
admitte d to trading on a regulate d market in the U nion should also disclose inf or mation on sustainability matt ers is 
aimed at responding to the needs of fi nancial mark et par ticipants f or inf or mation from such under takings in order 
to enable them to understand the r isks and im pacts of their inv estments and to compl y with the disclosure 
requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088.
(20) Third-countr y under takings whic h hav e a signif icant activity on the terr it or y of the Union should also be required to 
provid e sustainability inf or mation, especially on their impa cts on social and en vironmental matt ers, in order to 
ensure that third-countr y under takings are accountable f or their impacts on people and the en vironment and that 
there is a level pla ying fi eld f or compan ies operating in the internal market. Theref ore, third-countr y under takings 
which g enerate a net tur nover of more than EUR 150 million in the U nion and which hav e a subsidiar y 
under taking or a branch on the te r r it or y of the U nion should be subject to U nion sustainability repor ting 
requirements. T o ensure the propor tionality and enf orceability of such requirements, the threshold of hav ing a net 
tur nover of more than EUR 40 million should apply to the branch es of third-countr y under takings, and the 
thresholds relat ed to being considered a larg e under taking or a small or medium-sized under taking, excep t micro 
under takings, whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in the Union should apply to the 
subsidiar y under takings of third-countr y under takings, as such subsidiar y under takings and branche s should be 
responsible f or publishing the sustainability repor t of the third-countr y under taking. The sustainability repor ts 
published by the subsidiar y under taking or branch of a third-countr y under taking should be prepared in 
accordance with standards to be adopt ed by 30 June 2024 by the Commission through delegat ed acts.
The subsidiar y under taking or branch of a third-countr y under taking should also be able to repor t in accordance 
with the standards applying to under takings established in the U nion, or in accordance with standards which are 
deemed equivalent pursuant to an imp lementing act. In the event that not all the inf or mation required under this 
amending Directive is provid ed by the third-countr y under taking, despite the best eff or ts of the subsidiar y 
under taking or branch of that third-countr y under taking to obtain the necessar y inf or mation, that subsidiar y 
under taking or branch should provid e all the inf or mation in its possession and issue a stat ement indicating that the 
third-countr y under taking did not mak e the rest of the required inf or mation available. In order to ensure the quality 
and reliability of the repor ting, the sustainability repor ts of third-countr y under takings should be published 
accompan ied by an assurance opinion expressed by a person or fi r m author ised to give an opinion on the assurance 
of sustainability repor ting, either under the national la w of the third-countr y under taking or of a Member Stat e. In 
the event that such an assurance opinion is not provided, the subsidiar y under taking or branch of the third-countr y 
under taking should issue a stat ement indicating that the third-countr y under taking did not provid e the necessar y 
assurance opinion. The sustainability repor t should be made accessible free of c harge to the public through the 
central, commercial or compan ies registers of the Member Stat es, or altern atively on the website of the subsidiar y 
under taking or the branch of the third-countr y under taking.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/20 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 7 ---
Member Stat es should be able to inf or m the Commission on an annual basis of the subsidiar y under takings or 
branches of the third-countr y under takings that fulf illed the publication requirement and of the cases where a 
repor t was published but the subsidiar y under taking or branch of the third-countr y under taking has state d that it 
could not get the necessar y inf or mation from the third-countr y under taking. The Commission should make 
publicly av ailable on its website a list of the third-countr y under takings that hav e published a sustainability repor t.
(21) Consider ing the growing relevance of sustainability-related r isks and taking into account that small and medium- 
sized under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d mark et in the U nion compr ise a 
signif icant propor tion of all under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d mark et in the 
U nion, in order to ensure inv estor prot ection, it is appropr iat e to require that also small and medium-sized 
under takings, excep t micro under takings, whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the 
U nion disclose inf or mation on sustainability matt ers. The introduction of such a requirement will help to ensure 
that fi nancial mark et par ticipants can include smaller under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a 
regulated market in the Uni on in inv estment por tf olios, on the basis that the y repor t the sustainability inf or mation 
that financia l market par ticipants need.
It will theref ore help to prot ect and enhance the access of smaller under takings whose secur ities are admitte d to 
trading on a regulate d mark et in the U nion to financia l capital, and av oid discr imination ag ainst such under takings 
on the par t of financia l market par ticipants. The introduction of the requirement f or small and medium-sized 
under takings, excep t micro under takings, whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the 
U nion to disclose inf or mation on sustainability matte rs is also necessar y to ensure that fi nancial market par ticipants 
hav e the inf or mation they need from inv estee under takings to be able to compl y with their own sustainability 
disclosure requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. Small and medium-sized under takings whose 
secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a regulated market in the U nion should be given the possibility of repor ting in 
accordance with standards that are propor tionat e to their capacities and resources, and relevant to the scale and 
compl exity of their activities. Small and medium-sized under takings whose secur ities are not admitt ed to trading on 
a regulated mark et in the Uni on should also ha ve the possibility of choosing to use such propor tionat e standards on 
a v oluntar y basis.
The sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings will constitute a referen ce f or 
under takings that are within the scope of the requirements introduced by this amending Directive regar ding the 
level of sustainability inf or mation that they could reasonably request from small and medium-sized under takings 
that are suppliers or clients in the value c hains of such under takings. Small and medium-sized under takings whose 
secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion should, in addition, be given sufficient time to 
prepare f or the application of the provisions requir ing sustainability repor ting, due to their smaller size and more 
limited resources, and taking account of the difficult economic circumstances created by the C O VID-19 pandemic. 
Theref ore, the pro visions on cor porat e sustainability repor ting as regards small and medium-sized under takings, 
excep t micro under takings, whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d market in the Uni on should 
apply f or financia l years star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2026 . Follo wing that date, f or a transitional per iod of two 
ye ars, small and medium-sized under takings whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulated market in the 
U nion should hav e the possibility of opting-out from the sustainability repor ting requirements laid down in this 
amending Directive, provi ded the y br ief ly stat e in their management repor t why the sustainability inf or mation has 
not been provi ded.
(22) Member Stat es should be free to assess the im pact of their national transposition measures on small and medium- 
sized under takings, in order to ensure that they are not dispropor tionately affe cted, with specific attention to be 
given to micro-under takings and to av oiding an unnecessar y administrative burden. Member Stat es should consider 
introducing measures to suppor t small and medium-sized under takings in applying the sustainability repor ting 
standards.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/21  

--- PAGE 8 ---
(23) Directive 2004/109/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (
17
) applies to under takings whose secur ities 
are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in the Union. In order to ensure that under takings whose secur ities 
are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the U nion, including third-countr y issuers, fall under the same 
sustainability repor ting requirements, Directive 2004/109/EC should contain the necessar y cross-ref erences to an y 
requirement on sustainability repor ting in the annual financial repor t.
(24) P oint (i) of the f irst subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) and the f our th subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 
2004/109/EC empo wer the Commission to adop t measures to set up a mechanism f or the det er mination of 
equivalence of inf or mation required under that Directive, and f or the establishment of general equivalence cr it er ia 
regarding accounting standards, respectively . The third subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC 
also empo wers the Commission to tak e the necessar y decisions on the equivalence of accounting standards whic h 
are used by third-countr y issuers. In order to ref lect the inclusion of the sustainability requirements in Directive 
2004/109/EC, the Commission should be em powered to establish a mec hanism f or the deter mination of 
equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards applied by third-countr y issuers, similar to what is provided f or in 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1569/2007 (
18
) whic h sets out the cr iter ia f or the det er mination of equivalence of 
accounting standards applied by third-countr y issuers. For the same reason, the Commission should also be 
empo wered to take the necessar y decisions on the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards that are used by 
third-countr y issuers. The amendments introduced by this amending Directive will ensure consistent equivalence 
regimes f or sustainability repor ting requirements and f or fi nancial repor ting requirements regar ding the annual 
fi nancial repor t.
(25) Ar ticle 19a(3) and Ar ticle 29a(3) of Directive 2013/34/EU exem pt all subsidiar y under takings from the obligation to 
repor t non-fi nancial inf or mation where such under takings and their subsidiar y under takings are included in the 
consolidated manag ement repor t of their parent under taking, provid ed that repor t includes non-fi nancial 
inf or mation repor ted pursuant to that Directive. It is necessar y , however , to ensure that sustainability inf or mation is 
easily accessible f or users, and to ensure that there is transparency as regar ds which parent under taking of the 
exem pt ed subsidiar y under taking is repor ting at group level. It is theref ore necessar y to require those subsidiar y 
under takings to include in their managemen t repor t the name and register ed office of the parent under taking that is 
repor ting sustainability inf or mation at group level, the weblink s to the consolidated manage ment repor t of their 
parent under taking and a reference in their manag ement repor t to the f act that they are exem pt ed from 
sustainability repor ting. Member Stat es should be able to require that the parent under taking publish the 
consolidated manag ement repor t in the languag es they accept and that the parent under taking provid e an y 
necessar y translation in such language s. Such exem pti on should also apply where the parent under taking repor ting 
at group level is a third-countr y under taking repor ting sustainability inf or mation in accordance with equivalent 
sustainability repor ting standards.
Directive 2004/109/EC, as amended by this amending Directive, should provide f or appropr iate mec hanisms to 
det er mine the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards, and under takings whose secur ities are admitted to 
trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion and under takings whose secur ities are not admitted to trading on a 
regulated mark et in the U nion should be required to repor t in accordance with the same sustainability repor ting 
standards. In this context, the im plementing acts adopt ed by the Commission pursuant to point (i) of the first 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) and the f our th subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC establishing 
a mechani sm f or the det er mination of equivalence of standards should be used to det er mine whether to exem pt 
subsidiar y under takings of third-countr y parent under takings under the regime of Directive 2013/34/EU. 
Theref ore, the subsidiar y under taking should be exem pt ed when the consolidate d sustainability repor ting is car r ied 
out in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed by the Commission pursuant to Ar ticle 29b 
of Directive 2013/34/EU introduced by this amending Directive or in a manner equivalent to those sustainability 
repor ting standards, as det er mined in accordance with an implementing act on the equivalence of sustainability 
(
17
) Directive 2004/109/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on the har monisation of transparency 
requirements in relation to inf or mation about issuers whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated market and amending 
Directive 2001/34/EC (OJ L 390, 31.12.2004, p. 38).
(
18
) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1569/2007 of 21 December 2007 establishing a mechanism f or the determination of equivalence of 
accounting standards applied by third countr y issuers of secur ities pursuant to Directives 2003/71/EC and 2004/109/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 340, 22.12.2007, p. 66).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/22 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 9 ---
repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC. Such 
exem pti on should not apply to larg e under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in 
the U nion f or reasons of inv estor prote ction, in order to ensure great er transparency as regards such under takings.
(26) Ar ticle 23 of Directive 2013/34/EU exem pts parent under takings from the oblig ation to prepare consolidat ed 
fi nancial stat ements and a consolidated management repor t where parent under takings are subsidiar y under takings 
of another parent under taking that compl ies with that obligation. It should be specifi ed, however , that the 
exem pti on regime f or consolidated financia l stat ements and consolidated management repor ts operat es 
independently from the exem ption regime f or consolidated sustainability repor ting. An under taking can theref ore 
be exem pt ed from consolidated financial repor ting requirements but not from consolidated sustainability repor ting 
requirements where its ultimat e parent under taking prepares consolidated fi nancial state ments and consolidat ed 
manage ment repor ts in accordance with Union law , or in accordance with equivalent requirements if the 
under taking is established in a third countr y , but does not car r y out consolidated sustainability repor ting in 
accordance with Union law , or in accordance with equivalent requirements if the under taking is established in a 
third countr y . It is necessar y that parent under takings repor ting at group level provide an adequate understanding 
of the r isks f or , and im pacts of, their subsidiar y under takings, including inf or mation on their due diligence 
processes where appropr iat e. There might be cases where the differ ences between the situation of the group and 
that of its individual subsidiar y under takings, or between the situation of individual subsidiar y under takings in 
differ ent terr itori es are par ticularly significant and w ould, in the absence of additional inf or mation about the 
individual subsidiar y under taking concer ned, cause the user of the inf or mation to reach a substantially differ ent 
conclusion about the r isks f or , or im pacts of, the subsidiar y under taking.
(27) Credit institutions and insurance under takings pla y a ke y role in the transition to wards a fully sustainable and 
inclusive economic and fi nancial system in line with the Green Deal. They can hav e signif icant positive and nega tive 
imp acts via their lending, inv estment and under wr iting activities. Credit institutions and insurance under takings 
other than those that are required to compl y with Directive 2013/34/EU, including cooperatives and mutual 
under takings, should theref ore be subject to sustainability repor ting requirements, provid ed that the y meet cer tain 
size cr it er ia. Users of sustainability inf or mation w ould thus be enabled to assess both the impacts of such credit 
institutions and insurance under takings on society and the en vironment and the r isks ar ising from sustainability 
matte rs that such credit institutions and insurance under takings could f ace. Directive 2013/34/EU provi des f or 
three possible cr iter ia to det er mine whether an under taking is to be considered a ‘large under taking’, namely the 
balance sheet total, net tur nover and the av erage number of emplo yees dur ing the financial year .
The cr it er ion of net tur no ver needs to be adap ted f or credit institutions and f or insurance under takings by refe r r ing 
to the definition of net tur nover in Council Directives 86/635/EEC (
19
) and 91/674/EEC (
20
) inste ad of the g eneral 
definit ion laid down in Directive 2013/34/EU. T o ensure coherence with the repor ting requirements of Directive 
86/635/EEC, Member State s should be able to choose not to apply sustainability repor ting requirements to credit 
institutions listed in Ar ticle 2(5) of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council (
21
) .
(28) The list of sustainability matters on whic h under takings are required to repor t should be as consistent as possible 
with the definition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, and should prevent 
a mismatch between inf or mation required by data users and inf or mation to be repor ted by under takings. That list 
should also cor respond to the needs and expectations of users and under takings, who of ten use the term s 
‘envir onmental’, ‘social’ and ‘gov er nance ’ as a means of cate gor ising the three main sustainability matt ers. However , 
(
19
) Council Directive 86/635/EEC of 8 December 1986 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of banks and other financial 
institutions (OJ L 372, 31.12.1986, p. 1).
(
20
) Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of insurance under takings 
(OJ L 374, 31.12.1991, p. 7).
(
21
) Directive 2013/36/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions 
and the pr udential super vision of credit institutions, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC 
and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/23  

--- PAGE 10 ---
the def inition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 does not explicitly include 
governance matters. The definit ion of the term ‘sustainability matte rs’ in Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this 
amending Directive should theref ore co ver envi ronmental, social and human r ights, and governance f actors, and 
incor porate the def inition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. The 
repor ting requirements of Directive 2013/34/EU should be without prejudice to national repor ting obligations.
(29) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require repor ting not only on inf or mation to the extent 
necessar y f or an understanding of the under taking’s development, performa nce and position, but also on 
inf or mation necessar y f or an understanding of the im pact of the under taking’s activities on en vironmental, social 
and em plo ye e matt ers, respect f or human r ights, anti-cor r upti on and br iber y matters. Those Ar ticles theref ore 
require under takings to repor t both on the impa cts of the activities of the under taking on people and the 
en vironment, and on how sustainability matt ers affect the under taking. That is refer red to as the double mat er iality 
perspective, in which the r isks to the under taking and the im pacts of the under taking each represent one mater iality 
perspective. The fitness c heck on cor porate repor ting sho ws that those two perspectives are of ten not well 
underst ood or applied. It is theref ore necessar y to clar ify that under takings should consider each mat er iality 
perspective in its own r ight, and should disclose inf or mation that is mate r ial from both perspectives as well as 
inf or mation that is mate r ial from only one perspective.
(30) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to disclose inf or mation about fi ve 
repor ting areas: business model; policies, including due dilig ence processes implement ed; the outcome of those 
policies; r isks and r isk manag ement ; and ke y performa nce indicator s relevant to the business. Ar ticle 19a(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU does not contain explicit refe rences to other repor ting areas that users of inf or mation 
consider relevant, some of which align with disclosures included in internatio nal framew ork s, including the 
recommendations of the T ask Force on Climate-relat ed Financial Disclosures. Disclosure requirements should be 
specifi ed in sufficient detail to ensure that under takings repor t inf or mation on their resilience in relation to r isks 
relat ed to sustainability matt ers. In addition to the repor ting areas identif ied in Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU, under takings should be required to disclose inf or mation about their business strategy and 
the resilience of the business model and strateg y in relation to r isks related to sustainability matt ers. They should 
also be required to disclose any plans they ma y hav e to ensure that their business model and strategy are compati ble 
with the transition to a sustainable econom y and with the objectives of limiting g lobal war ming to 1,5 °C in line with 
the P ar is Agreement and achi eving climate neutrality by 2050, as established in Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, with no 
or limited overshoot.
It is especially im por tant that plans relat ed to the climat e be based on the latest science, including Intergo ver nmental 
P anel on Climate Change (IPCC) repor ts and repor ts by the European Scientifi c Ad visor y Board on Climate Change. 
Inf or mation disclosed in accordance with Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 about the amount of capital 
expenditure (CapEx) or operating expenditure (OpEx) associated with tax onomy-al igned activities could suppor t 
fi nancial and inve stment plans related to such plans where appropr iate. Under takings should also be required to 
disclose whether and how their business model and strateg y take account of the interests of stakeholders; an y 
oppor tunities f or the under taking ar ising from sustainability matters; the implementation of the aspects of the 
business strategy which affect, or are aff ected by , sustainability matt ers; any sustainability targe ts set by the 
under taking and the progress made to wards achi eving them; the role of the board and managemen t with regard to 
sustainability matters; the pr incipal actual and potential adverse im pacts connecte d with the under taking’s activities; 
and how the under taking has identif ied the inf or mation that it repor ts on. Once the disclosure of elements, such as 
targets and the progress to wards achi eving them, is required, a separate requirement to disclose the outcomes of 
policies is no long er necessar y .
(31) T o ensure consistency with internati onal instr uments such as the UN ‘Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human 
Rights: Implementing the Unit ed Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framew ork’ (‘UN Guiding Pr inciples on 
Business and Human Rights’ ), the OECD Guidelines f or Multinational Enter pr ises and the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance f or Responsible Business Conduct, the due dilig ence disclosure requirements should be specified in greate r 
detail than is cur rently the case in point (b) of Ar ticle 19a(1) and point (b) of Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU. 
Due dilig ence is the process that under takings car r y out to identify , monitor , prevent, mitig ate, remediate or br ing an 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/24 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 11 ---
end to the pr incipal actual and poten tial adverse im pacts connected with their activities and identifies how 
under takings address those adverse im pacts. Im pacts connected with an under taking’s activities include im pacts 
directly caused by the under taking, impa cts to which the under taking contr ibut es, and impacts which are other wise 
linked to the under taking’s value c hain. The due dilig ence process concer ns the whole value chain of the under taking 
including its o wn operations, its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply c hains. In line with 
the UN Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human Rights, an actual or poten tial adverse im pact is to be considered 
a pr incipal impa ct where it ranks among the greate st impacts connected with the under taking’s activities based on: 
the grav ity of the impact on people or the envi ronment ; the number of individuals that are or could be affe cted, or 
the scale of damage to the en vironment ; and the ease with which the har m could be remediated , restor ing the 
en vironment or affect ed people to their pr ior state.
(32) Directive 2013/34/EU does not require the disclosure of inf or mation on intangible resources other than intangible 
assets recognised in the balance sheet. It is widely recognised that inf or mation on intangible assets and other 
intangible f actors, including inte r nally generat ed intangible resources, is under repor ted, im peding the proper 
assessment of an under taking’s development, performa nce and position, and the monitori ng of inve stments. T o 
enable inv estors to bette r understand the increasing g ap between the accounting book value of man y under takings 
and their market valuation, which is obser ved in man y sectors of the economy , adequate repor ting on intangible 
resources should be required of all larg e under takings and all under takings, excep t micro-under takings, whose 
secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d market in the Uni on. Nonetheless, cer tain inf or mation on 
intangible resources is intr insic to sustainability matt ers, and should theref ore be par t of sustainability repor ting. 
For examp le, inf or mation about em plo ye es ’ skills, compet ences, exper ience, lo yalty to the under taking and 
motivation f or impro ving processes, goods and ser vices, is sustainability inf or mation rega rding social matters that 
could also be considered as inf or mation on intangible resources. Like wise, inf or mation about the quality of the 
relationships between the under taking and its stak eholders, including customer s, suppliers and communities 
affe cted by the activities of the under taking, is sustainability inf or mation relevant to social or governance matte rs 
that could also be considered as inf or mation on intangible resources. Such examples illustrate how in some cases it 
is not possible to distinguish inf or mation on intangible resources from inf or mation on sustainability matt ers.
(33) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU do not specify whether the inf or mation to be repor ted is 
to be f or ward-looking or inf or mation about past performa nce. There is cur rently a lac k of f or ward-looking 
disclosures, which users of sustainability inf or mation especially value. Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 
2013/34/EU should theref ore specify that the sustainability inf or mation repor ted is to include f or ward-looking and 
retrospective inf or mation and both qualitative and quantitative inf or mation. Inf or mation should be based on 
conclusive scientific evidence where appropr iat e. Inf or mation should also be har monized, comparable and based 
on unif or m indicators where appropr iate, while allowing f or repor ting that is specif ic to individual under takings 
and does not endange r the commercial position of the under taking. Repor ted sustainability inf or mation should also 
take into account shor t-, medium- and long-t er m time hor izons and contain inf or mation about the under taking’s 
whole value chain, including its own operations, its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply 
c hain, as appropr iat e. Inf or mation about the under taking’s whole value chain w ould include inf or mation relat ed to 
its value c hain within the Uni on and inf or mation that covers third countr ies if the under taking’s value c hain extends 
outside the Union. For the fi rst three yea rs of the application of the measures to be adop ted by the Member Stat es in 
accordance with this amending Directive, in the event that not all the necessar y inf or mation regar ding the value 
c hain is av ailable, the under taking should explain the eff or ts made to obtain the inf or mation about its value c hain, 
the reasons why that inf or mation could not be obtained, and the plans of the under taking to obtain such 
inf or mation in the future.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/25  

--- PAGE 12 ---
(34) It is not the objective of this amending Directive to require under takings to disclose intellectual capital, intellectual 
proper ty , know-ho w or the results of innovati on that w ould qualify as trade secrets as defined in Directive (EU) 
2016/943 of the European P arliament and of the Council (
22
) . Repor ting requirements pro vided f or in this 
amending Directive should theref ore be without prejudice to Directive (EU) 2016/943.
(35) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to include in their non-financial 
repor ting refe rences to, and additional explanations of, amounts repor ted in the annual fi nancial statements. Those 
Ar ticles do not, however , require under takings to make ref erences to other inf or mation in the management repor t 
or to add additional explanations to that inf or mation. Thus, there is cur rently a lack of consist ency between non- 
fi nancial inf or mation repor ted and the rest of the inf or mation disclosed in the management repor t. It is necessar y 
to la y down clear requirements in this regard.
(36) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to provid e a clear and reasoned 
explanation f or not pursuing policies in relation to one or more of the matt ers list ed in those Ar ticles, where the 
under taking does not do so. The differ ent treatment of disclosures on the policies that under takings ma y hav e, 
compare d to the other repor ting areas included in those Ar ticles, has created confusion among repor ting 
under takings and has not helped to im prove the quality of the repor ted inf or mation. Theref ore, there is no need to 
maintain such diff erent treatment of policies in that Directive. The sustainability repor ting standards should 
det er mine what inf or mation needs to be disclosed in relation to each of the repor ting areas mentioned in Ar ticles 
19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this amending Directive.
(37) U nder takings that fall under the scope of Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU ma y rely on 
national, Union-based or international repor ting frameworks, and where they do so, they hav e to specify which 
framewor k s they hav e relied upon. However , Directive 2013/34/EU does not require under takings to use a 
common repor ting framewor k or standard, and it does not prevent under takings from choosing not to use an y 
repor ting framew ork or standards at all. As required by Ar ticle 2 of Directive 2014/95/EU, on 5 July 2017 , the 
Commission adopt ed a Communication entitled ‘Guidelines on non-financial repor ting (methodology f or repor ting 
non-fi nancial inf or mation)’ (‘Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting’), provi ding f or non-binding guidelines f or 
under takings that fa ll under the scope of that Directive.
On 17 June 2019 , the Commission adopt ed its Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation, containing 
additional guidelines, specifi cally on repor ting climate -related inf or mation. Those Guidelines on repor ting climat e- 
relat ed inf or mation explicitly incor porat ed the recommendations of the T ask Force on Climat e-related Financial 
Disclosures. A vailable evidence indicates that the Guidelines on non-fi nancial repor ting did not hav e a signif icant 
imp act on the quality of non-fi nancial repor ting by under takings under the scope of Ar ticles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU. The volun tar y nature of the guidelines means that under takings are free to decide whether 
to apply them or not. The guidelines can theref ore not ensure on their own the comparab ility of the inf or mation 
disclosed by diff erent under takings, or the disclosure of all inf or mation that users of that inf or mation consider 
relevant. That is why there is a need f or mandatory common sustainability repor ting standards to ensure that 
inf or mation is compara ble and that all relevant inf or mation is disclosed. Building on the double mater iality 
pr inciple, standards should co ver all inf or mation that is mater ial to users of that inf or mation. Common 
sustainability repor ting standards are also necessar y to enable the assurance and digitalisation of sustainability 
repor ting and to f acilitate its super vision and enf orcement.
The development of mandatory common sustainability repor ting standards is necessar y to reach a situation in whic h 
sustainability inf or mation has a status compara ble to that of fi nancial inf or mation. The adoptio n of sustainability 
repor ting standards by means of delegat ed acts would ensure har monised sustainability repor ting across the Union. 
(
22
) Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undisclosed know-ho w 
and business inf or mation (trade secrets) again st their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/26 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 13 ---
Theref ore, an under taking w ould be compl iant with the sustainability repor ting requirements of Directive 
2013/34/EU by repor ting in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards. When defining such standards, 
it is essential to give due consideration, to the greatest extent possible, to the main sustainability repor ting standards 
used worldwide, while not lo wer ing the ambition of this amending Directive and delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant 
thereto.
(38) No existing standard or framewor k satisfies the U nion’s needs f or sustainability repor ting by itself. Inf or mation 
required by Directive 2013/34/EU needs to cover inf or mation relevant from each of the mate r iality perspectives, 
needs to co ver all sustainability matt ers and needs to be aligned, where appropr iate, with other oblig ations under 
U nion law to disclose sustainability inf or mation, including obligations laid down in Regulations (EU) 2019/2088 
and (EU) 2020/852. In addition, mandatory sustainability repor ting standards f or Union under takings should be 
commensurat e with the level of ambition of the Green Deal and the U nion’s objective of climate neutrality by 2050 
as well as with the interm ediat e targets under Regulation (EU) 2021/1119. It is theref ore necessar y to em power the 
Commission to adopt Union sustainability repor ting standards, enabling their rapid adopt ion and ensur ing that the 
conte nt of those sustainability repor ting standards is consistent with the Union’s needs.
(39) The European Financial Repor ting A dvisor y Group (EFRA G) is a non-profit association established under Belgian 
la w that ser ves the public interest by provid ing advice to the Commission on the endorsement of inte r national 
fi nancial repor ting standards. EFRA G has established a reputation as a European centre of exper tise on cor porat e 
repor ting and is well placed to f oster coordination between Union sustainability repor ting standards and 
internati onal initiatives that seek to develop standards that are consistent across the world. In March 2021, a multi- 
stake holder task f orce set up by EFRA G published recommendations f or the possible development of sustainability 
repor ting standards f or the U nion. Those recommendations contain proposals to develop a coherent and 
compreh ensive set of sustainability repor ting standards, cover ing all sustainability matte rs from a double mater iality 
perspective. Those recommendations also contain a detailed roadmap f or developing such standards, and proposals 
f or mutually reinf orcing cooperation between g lobal standard-setting initiatives and standard-setting initiatives of 
the Union. In March 2021, the EFRA G Board President published recommendations f or possible govern ance 
c hanges to EFRA G in the event that it were to be asked to develop tec hnical advice about sustainability repor ting 
standards. The EFRA G Board President’s recommendations include the setting up of a new sustainability repor ting 
pillar within EFRA G, while not signif icantly modifying the existing fi nancial repor ting pillar . In Marc h 2022, the 
EFRA G General Assembly appointe d the members of the newly creat ed EFRA G Sustainability Repor ting Board. 
When adop ting sustainability repor ting standards, the Commission should take account of tec hnical advice that 
EFRA G will develop.
In order to ensure high-quality standards that contr ibut e to the European public good and meet the needs of 
under takings and of users of the inf or mation repor ted , EFRA G should have suff icient public funding to ensure its 
independence. Its te chnical advice should be developed with proper due process, public oversight and transparency , 
and based on the exper tise of a balanced representation of relevant stak eholders, including under takings, invest ors, 
civil society org anisations and trade unions, and should be accompanied by cost-benefi t analyses. P ar ticipation in 
EFRA G’s w ork at te chnical level should be conditional on exper tise in sustainability repor ting and should not be 
conditional on an y fi nancial contr ibution, without prejudice to the par ticipation of public bodies and national 
standard-setting organisations in that w ork . A transparent process av oiding conf licts of inte rest should be 
guarant eed. T o ensure that Union sustainability repor ting standards take account of the views of the Member State s, 
bef ore adopting those standards the Commission should consult the Member Stat e Exper t Group on Sustainable 
Finance, ref er red to in Regulation (EU) 2020/852, (the ‘Member Stat e Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance’) and the 
A ccounting Regulator y Committ ee, refe r red to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European P arliament and of 
the Council (
23
) , (the ‘ A ccounting Regulat or y Committ ee’ ) in relation to EFRA G’s te chnical advice.
(
23
) Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of inter national 
accounting standards (OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/27  

--- PAGE 14 ---
The European Secur ities and Mark ets Author ity (ESMA), the European Banking A uthor ity (EBA) and the European 
Insurance and Occupational Pensions Aut hor ity (EIOP A) pla y a role in draf ting regulatory tec hnical standards 
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 and there needs to be coherence between those regulator y tec hnical 
standards and sustainability repor ting standards. Under Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European P arliament 
and of the Council (
24
) , ESMA also pla ys a role in promoting super visor y con vergence in the enf orcement of 
cor porate repor ting by issuers whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a regulated market in the U nion and who 
will be required to repor t in accordance with those sustainability repor ting standards. Theref ore, ESMA, EBA and 
EIOP A should be required to provide an opinion on EFRA G’s tec hnical advice. Such opinions should be provid ed 
within two months of the dat e of receipt of the request from the Commission. In addition, the Commission should 
consult the European En vironment Agen cy , the European Uni on Agen cy f or Fundamental Rights, the ECB, the 
Committ ee of European Auditing Oversight Bodies (CEA OB) and the Platf or m on Sustainable Finance to ensure that 
the sustainability repor ting standards are coherent with relevant U nion policy and la w . Where any of those entities 
decide to submit an opinion, the y should do so within two months of the date of being consulted by the 
Commission.
(40) In order to f oste r democratic control, scr utiny and transparency , the Commission should, at least once a yea r , consult 
the European P arliament, and jointly the Member Stat e Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance and the A ccounting 
Regulat or y Committ ee on EFRA G’s w ork programme as regards the development of sustainability repor ting 
standards.
(41) Sustainability repor ting standards should be coherent with other Union la w . Those standards should in par ticular be 
aligned with the disclosure requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, and they should take account of 
underlying indicators and methodologies set out in the var ious delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2020/852, disclosure requirements applicable to benchmark administrator s pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
25
) , the minimum standards f or the constr uction of EU 
Climate T ransition Benchmarks and EU P ar is-aligned Benchmarks, and of any w ork car r ied out by the EBA in the 
imp lementation of the Pillar III disclosure requirements of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
Standards should take account of U nion environmental la w , including Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the 
European P arliament and of the Council (
26
) and Directive 2003/87/EC of the European P arliament and of the 
Council (
27
) , and should take account of Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU (
28
) , its annex es and their 
update s. Other relevant U nion la w , including Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (
29
) , and other requirements laid down in U nion la w f or under takings as regar ds direct ors ’ duties and due 
dilig ence should also be taken into account.
(
24
) Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Pa rliament and of the Council of 24 Novem ber 2010 establishing a European 
Super visor y Authority (European Secur ities and Markets Authority) , amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission 
Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84).
(
25
) Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchm ark s in financial 
instr uments and financial contracts or to measure the perfor mance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC 
and 2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 1).
(
26
) Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the vo luntar y par ticipation 
by org anisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), repealing Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and 
Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC (OJ L 342, 22.12.2009, p. 1).
(
27
) Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 Octo ber 2003 establishing a sc heme f or greenhouse gas 
emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, p. 32).
(
28
) Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU of 9 Apr il 2013 on the use of common methods to measure and communicate the life 
cy cle environmental perf or mance of products and org anisations (OJ L 124, 4.5.2013, p. 1).
(
29
) Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industr ial emissions (integrat ed 
pollution prevention and control) (OJ L 334, 17.12.2010, p. 17).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/28 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 15 ---
(42) Sustainability repor ting standards should take account of the Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting and the 
Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation. They should also tak e account of other repor ting requirements 
in Directive 2013/34/EU that are not directly related to sustainability , with the aim of provi ding the users of the 
repor ted inf or mation with a bett er understanding of the development, performa nce, position and im pact of the 
under taking, by maximising the link s between the sustainability inf or mation and other inf or mation repor te d in 
accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU.
(43) Sustainability repor ting standards should be propor tionate and should not im pose an unnecessar y administrative 
burden on companies that are required to use them. In order to minimise disr upti on f or under takings that already 
repor t sustainability inf or mation, sustainability repor ting standards should take account of existing standards and 
framewor k s f or sustainability repor ting and accounting where appropr iat e. Such existing standards and frameworks 
include the Global Repor ting Initiative, the Sustainability A ccounting Standards Board, the Internatio nal Int egrated 
Repor ting Council, the Intern ational A ccounting Standards Board, the T ask Force on Climate-r elated Financial 
Disclosures, the Carbon Disclosure Standards Board, and CDP , f or merly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
U nion standards should take account of any sustainability repor ting standards developed under the auspices of 
Internatio nal Financial Repor ting Standards Foundation. T o av oid unnecessar y regulator y fragmentation that could 
hav e nega tive consequences f or under takings operating g lobally , U nion sustainability repor ting standards should 
contr ibut e to the process of converg ence of sustainability repor ting standards at g lobal level, by suppor ting the 
w ork of the Internati onal Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB). Union sustainability repor ting standards should 
reduce the r isk of inconsist ent repor ting requirements f or under takings that operat e g lobally by integrat ing the 
conte nt of g lobal baseline standards to be developed by the ISSB, to the extent that the content of those baseline 
standards is consistent with the Union’s legal framework and the objectives of the Green Deal.
(44) In the Green Deal the Commission committed itself to suppor t businesses and other stak eholders in developing 
standardised natural capital accounting practices within the U nion and internatio nally , with the aim of ensur ing 
appropr iat e management of en vironmental r isks and mitig ation oppor tunities, and reduce related transaction costs.
The T ransparent Project sponsored under the Programme f or the Environment and Climate A ction (LIFE 
programme) established by Regulation (EU) 2021/783 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
30
) is 
developing the first natural capital accounting methodology , which will make existing methods easier to compare 
and more transparent while lower ing the threshold f or companies to adopt and use the syste ms in suppor t of 
future-proofing their business. The Natural Capital Protocol is also an impor tant referen ce in the fi eld of natural 
capital accounting. While natural capital accounting methods ser ve pr incipally to strengthen internal management 
decisions, they should be duly considered when establishing sustainability repor ting standards. Some natural capital 
accounting methodologies seek to assign a monetar y value to the environmental impacts of companies’ activities, 
which ma y help users of sustainability inf or mation to bette r understand such im pacts. It is theref ore appropr iat e 
that sustainability repor ting standards should be able to include monetised indicators of sustainability im pacts if 
that is deemed necessar y .
(45) Sustainability repor ting standards should also take account of internati onally recognised pr inciples and frameworks 
on responsible business conduct, cor porate social responsibility , and sustainable development, including the SDGs, 
the UN Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines f or Multinational Enter pr ises, the 
OECD Due Dilig ence Guidance f or Responsible Business Conduct and relat ed sectoral guidelines, the Global 
Com pact, the Intern ational Labour Org anization’s (IL O) T r ipar tit e Declaration of Pr inciples concer ning 
Multinational Enterpr ises and Social P olicy , the ISO 26000 standard on social responsibility , and the UN Pr inciples 
f or Responsible Inv estment.
(
30
) Regulation (EU) 2021/783 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 Apr il 2021 establishing a Programme f or the 
Environment and Climate A ction (LIFE), and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1293/2013 (OJ L 172, 17.5.2021, p. 53).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/29  

--- PAGE 16 ---
(46) It should be ensured that the inf or mation repor ted by under takings in accordance with the sustainability repor ting 
standards meets the needs of users and does not place a dispropor tionat e burden in term s of eff or t and cost on the 
repor ting under takings and those that are indirectly aff ected as par t of the value c hain of those under takings. The 
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the inf or mation that under takings are to disclose on all 
maj or environmental fact ors, including their im pacts and dependencies on climat e, air , land, water and biodiversity . 
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 provid es a classificat ion of the en vironmental objectives of the Union.
For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iat e to use a similar classification to identify the en vironmental fact ors that 
should be addressed by sustainability repor ting standards. The sustainability repor ting standards should consider 
and specify any ge ographical or other conte xtual inf or mation that under takings should disclose to provi de an 
understanding of their pr incipal impa cts on sustainability matt ers and the pr incipal r isks to the under taking ar ising 
from sustainability matt ers. When specifying the inf or mation about en vironmental fact ors that under takings are to 
disclose, coherence should be ensured with the def initions laid down in Ar ticle 2 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and 
the repor ting requirements laid down in Ar ticle 8 of that Regulation and in the delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to 
that Regulation.
(47) With regard to climat e-related inf or mation, users are inte rested in knowing about under takings’ physical and 
transition r isks, and about their resilience as regards, and plans to adap t to, differ ent climate scenar ios and plans to 
adapt to the U nion’s objective of climat e neutrality by 2050. They are also interest ed in the level and scope of GHG 
emissions and removals attr ibuted to the under taking, including the ext ent to whic h the under taking uses offsets 
and the source of those offsets. A c hieving a climat e neutral econom y requires the alignment of GHG accounting 
and offsetting standards. Users need reliable inf or mation regar ding offsets that addresses concer ns regarding 
possible double counting and overestimations, given the r isks to the achi evement of climate -related targets that 
double counting and o verestimations can creat e. Users are also inte rested to know the eff or ts made by compan ies to 
effe ctively reduce absolute GHG emissions as par t of their climate mitigation and adaptation strategies, including 
scope 1, scope 2 and, where relevant, scope 3 emissions.
With regard to scope 3 emissions, a pr ior ity f or users is to receive inf or mation about whic h scope 3 catego r ies are 
signif icant in the case of the under taking, and about the emissions in each of those scope 3 catego r ies. The 
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the inf or mation under takings should repor t with regar d 
to such matters.
(48) A c hieving a climat e-neutral and circular economy without diffuse pollution requires the full mobilisation of all 
economic sect ors. Reducing energy use and increasing energy effi ciency is ke y in this respect, as energy is used 
across supply c hains. Energy aspects should theref ore be duly considered in sustainability repor ting standards, in 
par ticular in relation to envi ronmental matte rs, including climat e-related matt ers.
(49) Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose on social fact ors, 
including working conditions, social par tner inv olvement, collective bargaining, equality , non-discr imination, 
diversity and inclusion, and human r ights. Such inf or mation should cover the impacts of the under taking on 
people, including w orkers, and on human health. The inf or mation that under takings disclose about human r ights 
should include inf or mation about f orced labour and child labour in their value c hains where relevant. Sustainability 
repor ting requirements concer ning f orced labour should not free public author ities of their responsibility to address, 
through trade policy and diplomatic means, the im por t of goods produced as a result of human r ights abuses, 
including f orced labour . U nder takings should also be able to repor t on possible r isks and trends regarding 
emplo yment and incomes.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address social fact ors should specify the inf or mation that under takings 
should disclose with regard to the pr inciples of the European Pillar of Social Rights that are relevant to businesses, 
including equal oppor tunities f or all and w orking conditions. The A ction Plan on the European Pillar of Social 
Rights, adop ted by the Commission on 4 Marc h 2021 , calls f or stronger requirements on under takings to repor t on 
social issues. The sustainability repor ting standards should also specify the inf or mation that under takings should 
disclose with regar d to the human r ights, fundamental freedoms, democratic pr inciples and standards established in 
the Internati onal Bill of Human Rights and other core UN human r ights con ventions, including the UN Convention 
on the Rights of P ersons with Disabilities, the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indige nous P eoples, the UN 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/30 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 17 ---
Conv ention on the Rights of the Child, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Pr inciples and Rights at W ork , the 
fundamental conventions of the ILO, the European Conv ention f or the Protection of Human Rights and 
Fundamental Freedoms, the European Social Char ter , and the Char te r of Fundamental Rights of the European 
U nion. Repor ting car r ied out on social fact ors, as well as on envi ronmental and govern ance f actors, should be 
propor tionat e to the scope and the goals of this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards that address 
ge nder equality and equal pa y f or w ork of equal value should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be 
repor ted about the gender pa y g ap, taking account of other relevant U nion la w . Sustainability repor ting standards 
that address em plo yment and inclusion of people with disabilities should specify , amongst other things, 
inf or mation to be repor ted about accessibility measures tak en by the under taking.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address training and skills development should specify , amongst other things, 
inf or mation to be repor ted about the propor tion and breakdown of w orkers par ticipating in training. Sustainability 
repor ting standards that address collective bargaining should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be 
disclosed about the existen ce of w ork s councils as well as the existen ce of collective agreements and the propor tion 
of work ers covered by such agreements. Sustainability repor ting standards that address par ticipation of w orke rs 
should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be disclosed about the par ticipation of work ers in 
administrative and super visor y boards. Sustainability repor ting standards that address diversity should specify , 
amongst other things, inf or mation to be repor ted on gender diversity at top management and the number of 
members of the under -represented sex on their boards.
(50) Users need inf or mation about govern ance fact ors. Gov er nance f actors that are most relevant to users are liste d by 
author itative repor ting frameworks such as the Global Repor ting Initiative and the T ask Force on Climate-r elated 
Financial Disclosures, as well as by author itative g lobal framewor k s such as the Global Gover nance Pr inciples of the 
Internatio nal Cor porate Gov er nance Networ k and the G20/OECD Pr inciples of Cor porat e Gover nance. 
Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose on govern ance 
fa ctors. Such inf or mation should co ver the role of an under taking’s administrative, manag ement and super visor y 
bodies with regard to sustainability matters, the exper tise and skills needed to fulfil that role or the access such 
bodies have to such exper tise and skills, whether the compan y has a policy in te r ms of incentives which are offered 
to members of those bodies and whic h are linke d to sustainability matt ers, and inf or mation on an under taking’s 
internal control and r isk manag ement system s in relation to the sustainability repor ting process. Users also need 
inf or mation about under takings’ cor porate culture and approach to business ethics, whic h are recognised elements 
of author itative framewor k s on cor porat e governance , such as the Global Gov er nance Pr inciples of the 
Internatio nal Cor porat e Govern ance Network, including inf or mation about anti-cor r uption and anti-br iber y , and 
about the under taking’s activities and commitments aimed at exer ting its political inf luence, including its lobb ying 
activities.
Inf or mation about the management of the under taking and the quality of relationships with customer s, suppliers 
and communities aff ected by the activities of the under taking, helps users to understand an under taking’s r isks and 
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters. Inf or mation about relationships with suppliers includes pa yment practices 
relating to the dat e or per iod f or pa yment, the rat e of inte rest f or late pa yment or the compen sation f or recovery 
costs refe r red to in Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (
31
) . Ever y ye ar , thousands 
of businesses, especially small and medium-sized ent er pr ises (‘SMEs’ ), suffe r an administrative and fi nancial burden 
because the y are paid late, or not at all. Ultimat ely , late pa yments lead to insolvency and bankr uptcy , with 
destr uctive effects on entire value c hains. Increasing the amount of inf or mation about pa yment practices should 
empo wer other under takings to identify promp t and reliable pa ye rs, det ect unfa ir pa yment practices, access 
inf or mation about the businesses the y trade with, and negotiate f airer pa yment term s.
(
31
) Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Febr uar y 2011 on combating late pa yment in commercial 
transactions (OJ L 48, 23.2.2011, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/31  

--- PAGE 18 ---
(51) The sustainability repor ting standards should promot e a more integrat ed view of all the inf or mation published by 
under takings in the manag ement repor t to provid e users of that inf or mation with a bett er understanding of the 
development, performance, position and impact of the under taking. The sustainability repor ting standards should 
distinguish, as necessar y , between inf or mation that under takings should disclose when repor ting at individual level 
and the inf or mation that under takings should disclose when repor ting at group level. The sustainability repor ting 
standards should also contain guidance f or under takings on the process f or identifying the sustainability 
inf or mation that should be included in the manage ment repor t, since an under taking should only be required to 
disclose the inf or mation relevant to understanding its impa cts on sustainability matt ers, and the inf or mation 
relevant to understanding how sustainability matte rs affect its development, performa nce and position.
(52) Member States should ensure that sustainability repor ting is car r ied out in compl iance with work ers’ r ights to 
inf or mation and consultation. The manag ement of the under taking should theref ore inf or m w orkers’ 
representatives at the appropr iate level and discuss with them relevant inf or mation and the means of obtaining and 
ver ifying sustainability inf or mation. This im plies f or the pur pose of this amending Directive the establishment of 
dialogue and exc hange of views between w orke rs ’ representatives and central manag ement or any other level of 
manage ment that could be more appropr iate, at such times, in such fashion and with such content as would enable 
w orkers’ representatives to express their opinion. Their opinion should be communicated, where applicable, to the 
relevant administrative, manage ment or super visor y bodies.
(53) U nder takings in the same sect or are of ten exposed to similar sustainability-relate d r isks , and the y of ten hav e similar 
imp acts on society and the environment. Com par isons between under takings in the same sect or are especially 
valuable to inve stors and other users of sustainability inf or mation. Sustainability repor ting standards should 
theref ore specify both inf or mation that under takings in all sect ors should disclose and inf or mation that 
under takings should disclose depending on their sector of activity . Sector -specifi c sustainability repor ting standards 
are especially imp or tant in the case of sect ors associated with high sustainability r isks f or or impacts on the 
en vironment, human r ights and govern ance, including sectors listed in Sections A to H and Section L of Annex I to 
Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
32
) , and the relevant activities within 
those sector s. When adopt ing sector -specif ic sustainability repor ting standards, the Commission should ensure the 
inf or mation specifi ed by those sustainability repor ting standards is propor tionat e to the scale of the r isks and 
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters specific to each sector , taking account of the f act that the r isks and im pacts 
of some sector s are higher than f or others. The Commission should also take account of the f act that not all activities 
within such sector s are necessar ily associated with high sustainability r isks or im pacts. For under takings that operat e 
in sect ors par ticularly reliant on natural resources, sector -specif ic sustainability repor ting standards w ould require 
the disclosure of nature-related impacts on and r isks f or biodiversity and ecosystems.
Sustainability repor ting standards should also tak e account of the difficulties that under takings ma y encounter in 
gat her ing inf or mation from actors throughout their value c hain, especially from suppliers that are small or 
medium-sized under takings and from suppliers in emerging mark ets and economies. Sustainability repor ting 
standards should specify disclosures concer ning value c hains that are propor tionate and relevant to the scale and 
compl exity of the activities of the under takings, and the capacities and c haract er istics of under takings in value 
c hains, especially those capacities and c haract er istics of under takings that are not subject to the sustainability 
repor ting requirements provid ed f or in this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards should not 
specify disclosures that w ould require under takings to obtain inf or mation from small and medium-sized 
under takings in their value c hain that exceed s the inf or mation to be disclosed in accordance with the sustainability 
repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings. This should be without prejudice to an y U nion 
requirements on under takings to conduct a due diligence process.
(
32
) Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the statistical 
classif ication of economic activities NA CE Revision 2 and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3037/90 as well as cer tain EC 
Regulations on specific statistical domains (OJ L 393, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/32 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 19 ---
(54) T o meet the inf or mation needs of users in a timely manner , and in par ticular given the urgency to meet the 
inf or mation needs of f inancial mark et par ticipants subject to the requirements laid down in the delegat ed acts 
adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 4(6) and (7) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, the Commission should adopt a first set of 
sustainability repor ting standards by means of delegat ed acts by 30 June 2023 . That set of sustainability repor ting 
standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose with regar d to all repor ting areas and 
sustainability matte rs, and that fi nancial mark et par ticipants need to compl y with the disclosure obligations laid 
down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. The Commission should adopt a second set of sustainability repor ting 
standards by means of delega ted acts by 30 June 2024 , specifying compl ementar y inf or mation that under takings 
should disclose about sustainability matte rs and repor ting areas, where necessar y , and inf or mation that is specif ic to 
the sector in whic h an under taking operates. The Commission should review those sustainability repor ting 
standards, including the sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings, ever y three 
ye ars to take account of relevant developments, including the development of intern ational standards.
(55) Directive 2013/34/EU does not require that under takings provid e their management repor ts in a digital f or mat, 
which hinders the findability and usability of the repor ted inf or mation. Users of sustainability inf or mation 
increasing ly expect such inf or mation to be fi ndable, compar able and mach ine-readable in digital f or mats. Member 
State s should be able to require that under takings subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements of Directive 
2013/34/EU make their manag ement repor ts av ailable on their website s, free of charg e to the public. Digitalisation 
creat es oppor tunities to exploit inf or mation more efficiently and holds the poten tial f or signif icant cost savings f or 
both users and under takings. Digitalisation also enables the centralisation at Union and Member State level of data 
in an open and accessible f or mat that f acilitates reading and allo ws f or the comparison of data. U nder takings should 
theref ore be required to prepare their manag ement repor t in the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in Ar ticle 3 of 
Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 (
33
) , and to mark up their sustainability repor ting, including the 
disclosures required by Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, in accordance with the electronic repor ting f or mat 
specifi ed in Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 once that is det er mined.
A digital tax onomy f or the Union sustainability repor ting standards will be necessar y to allo w the repor ted 
inf or mation to be tagg ed in accordance with those sustainability repor ting standards. These requirements should 
fe ed into the w ork on digitalisation announced by the Commission in its Communication of 19 Febr uar y 2020
entitled ‘ A European strategy f or data’ and in its Communication of 24 Sept ember 2020 entitled ‘Digital Finance 
Strateg y f or the EU’. These requirements w ould also compl ement the creation of a European sing le access point 
(ESAP) f or public cor porate inf or mation as en visaged in the Commission’s Communication of 24 Sept ember 2020
entitled ‘ A Capital Mark ets Union f or people and businesses - new action plan’ in which the need to pro vide 
comparab le inf or mation in a digital f or mat is also considered.
(56) T o allo w f or the inclusion of the repor te d sustainability inf or mation in the ESA P , Member Stat es should ensure that 
under takings whose secur ities are not admitt ed to trading on a regulated market in the Uni on publish their 
manage ment repor t, including sustainability repor ting, in the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in Ar ticle 3 of 
Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815.
(57) Ar ticle 19a(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU enables Member Stat es to exem pt under takings from including in the 
manage ment repor t the non-f inancial state ment required under Ar ticle 19a(1) of that Directive. Member Stat es are 
allowe d to do so where the under taking concer ned prepares a separate repor t that is published tog ether with the 
manage ment repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 30 of that Directive, or where that repor t is made publicly av ailable 
on the under taking’s website within a reasonable per iod of time not exceed ing 6 months af ter the balance sheet 
date , and is ref er red to in the managemen t repor t. The same possibility exists f or the consolidated non-financial 
state ment refer red to in Directive 2013/34/EU. T wenty Member Stat es hav e used that op tion. The possibility of 
publishing a separate repor t hinders, however , the availability of inf or mation that connects fi nancial inf or mation 
and inf or mation on sustainability matters. It also hinders the findability and accessibility of inf or mation f or users, 
especially invest ors, who are inte rested in both f inancial and sustainability inf or mation. P ossible differ ent 
publication times f or fi nancial and sustainability inf or mation exacerbate that problem. Publication in a separate 
(
33
) Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 of 17 December 2018 supplementing Directive 2004/109/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulat or y tec hnical standards on the specificatio n of a sing le electronic repor ting 
f or mat (OJ L 143, 29.5.2019, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/33  

--- PAGE 20 ---
repor t can also give the impression, internal ly and extern ally , that sustainability inf or mation belongs to a cate gor y of 
less relevant inf or mation, which can impact negat ively on the perceived reliability of the inf or mation. Unde r takings 
should theref ore repor t sustainability inf or mation in a clearly identif iable dedicat ed section of the management 
repor t and Member Stat es should no long er be allowed to exe mp t under takings from the oblig ation to include in 
the manage ment repor t inf or mation on sustainability matt ers.
Such oblig ation w ould also help to clar ify the role of national compet ent author ities in super vising sustainability 
repor ting, as par t of the management repor t prepared in accordance with Directive 2004/109/EC. In addition, 
under takings required to repor t sustainability inf or mation should in no case be exem pt ed from the oblig ation to 
publish the manag ement repor t, as it is impor tant to ensure that sustainability inf or mation is publicly av ailable.
(58) Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires under takings whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulat ed 
mark et in the Union to include a cor porat e governance state ment in their management repor t, whic h has to 
contain, among other inf or mation, a descr ip tion of the diversity policy applied by the under taking in relation to its 
administrative, manage ment and super visor y bodies. Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU leav es f lexibility to 
under takings to decide what aspects of diversity the y repor t on. It does not explicitly oblig e under takings to include 
inf or mation on an y par ticular aspect of diversity . In order to progress to wards a more gender -balanced par ticipation 
in economic decision-making, it is necessar y to ensure that under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on 
a regulated market in the U nion alwa ys repor t on their gender diversity policies and the implementation thereof. 
However , to av oid an unnecessar y administrative burden, such under takings should hav e the possibility of 
repor ting some of the inf or mation required by Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU alongside other sustainability 
inf or mation. If they decide to do so, the cor porat e govern ance statement should include a referen ce to the 
under taking’s sustainability repor ting, and the inf or mation required under Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU 
should remain subject to the assurance requirements of the cor porat e go ver nance stat ement.
(59) Ar ticle 33 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires Member Stat es to ensure that the members of the administrative, 
manage ment and super visor y bodies of an under taking hav e collective responsibility f or ensur ing that the annual 
fi nancial statemen ts, the consolidat ed fi nancial statements, the manag ement repor t, the consolidate d management 
repor t, the cor porat e go ver nance stat ement and the consolidated cor porate govern ance statement are dra wn up and 
published in accordance with the requirements of that Directive. That collective responsibility should be extende d to 
the digitalisation requirements laid down in Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815, to the requirement to compl y 
with U nion sustainability repor ting standards and to the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting.
(60) The assurance profession distinguishes between limite d assurance engag ements and reasonable assurance 
engag ements. The conclusion of a limited assurance engag ement is usually provi ded in a negativ e f or m of 
expression by stating that no matt er has been identified by the practitioner to conclude that the subject matt er is 
mater ially misstated. In a limite d assurance enga gement, the auditor performs fe wer tes ts than in a reasonable 
assurance engag ement. The amount of w ork f or a limited assurance eng agement is theref ore less than f or a 
reasonable assurance engag ement. The amount of w ork in a reasonable assurance engag ement entails extensi ve 
procedures including consideration of intern al controls of the repor ting under taking and substantive tes ting, and is 
theref ore significantly greater than in a limite d assurance enga gement.
The conclusion of a reasonable assurance engag ement is usually pro vided in a positive f or m of expression and results 
in provid ing an opinion on the measurement of the subject matte r ag ainst previously defined cr it er ia. Directive 
2013/34/EU requires Member Stat es to ensure that the statut or y auditor or audit fir m c hecks whether the non- 
fi nancial state ment or the separate repor t has been provid ed. It does not require that an independent pro vider of 
assurance ser vices ver ify the inf or mation, although it allows Member States to require such ver ification where they 
so wish. The absence of an assurance requirement concer ning sustainability repor ting, in contrast to the 
requirement f or the statutor y auditor to car r y out statutor y audits based on a reasonable assurance engag ement, 
w ould threaten the credibility of the sustainability inf or mation disclosed, thus failing to meet the needs of the 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/34 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 21 ---
intended users of that inf or mation. Although the objective is to hav e a similar level of assurance f or fi nancial and 
sustainability repor ting, the absence of a commonly agreed standard f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
creat es the r isk of diffe rent understandings and expectations of what a reasonable assurance enga gement w ould 
consist of f or different categor ies of sustainability inf or mation, especially with regar d to f or ward-looking and 
qualitative disclosures.
Theref ore, a progressive approach to enhancing the level of the assurance required f or sustainability inf or mation 
should be considered, star ting with an oblig ation on the statutor y auditor or audit fir m to express an opinion about 
the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with U nion requirements based on a limited assurance engag ement. 
That opinion should cover the compl iance of the sustainability repor ting with U nion sustainability repor ting 
standards, the process car r ied out by the under taking to identify the inf or mation repor te d pursuant to the 
sustainability repor ting standards and compl iance with the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting. The 
auditor should also assess whether the under taking’s repor ting complies with the repor ting requirements of 
Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. T o ensure a common understanding and common expectations of what a 
reasonable assurance engag ement would consist of, the statut or y auditor or audit fir m should be required to express 
an opinion based on a reasonable assurance engag ement about the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with 
U nion requirements, when the Commission adopts assurance standards f or reasonable assurance of sustainability 
repor ting by means of delegat ed acts no later than 1 October 2028 , f ollowing an assessment to deter mine if 
reasonable assurance is f easible f or auditors and under takings.
The gradual approach from limited assurance engag ements to reasonable assurance engag ements w ould also allow 
f or the progressive development of the assurance mark et f or sustainability inf or mation, and of under takings’ 
repor ting practices. Finally , such gradual approach would phase in the increase in costs f or repor ting under takings, 
given that assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement is more costly than 
assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a limite d assurance engag ement. Under takings subject to 
sustainability repor ting requirements should be able to decide to hav e an assurance opinion on their sustainability 
repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement if they so wish, and in such cases they should be deemed to 
hav e compl ied with the oblig ation to hav e an opinion based on a limited assurance engag ement. The opinion based 
on a reasonable assurance engag ement concer ning f or ward-looking inf or mation is only an assurance that such 
inf or mation has been prepared in accordance with applicable standards.
(61) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms already ver ify the financial stat ements and the management repor t. The assurance 
of sustainability repor ting by the statutor y auditors or audit fir ms w ould help to ensure the connectivity between, 
and consiste ncy of, financia l and sustainability inf or mation, which is par ticularly im por tant f or users of 
sustainability inf or mation. However , there is a r isk of fur ther concentration of the audit mark et, which could r isk 
the independence of auditors and increase audit f ees or fe es relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
Consider ing the ke y role of statut or y auditors when providin g assurance of sustainability repor ting and ensur ing 
reliable sustainability inf or mation, the Commission has announced that it will act to fur ther enhance audit quality 
and to create a more open and diversif ied audit market, which are the conditions f or the successful application of 
this amending Directive. In addition, it is desirable to offe r under takings a broader c hoice of independent assurance 
ser vices provid ers f or the assurance of sustainably repor ting. Member Stat es should theref ore be allowed to accredit 
independent assurance ser vices providers in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European 
P arliament and of the Council (
34
) to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, which should be 
published tog ether with the management repor t. In addition, Member State s should be given the op tion of allowing 
(
34
) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements f or 
accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/35  

--- PAGE 22 ---
a statutor y auditor , other than the one(s) car r ying out the statutor y audit of the financia l state ments, to express an 
assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting. Fur ther more, if they allo w independent assurance ser vices provid ers 
to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, Member Stat es should also allo w a statut or y auditor , other 
than the one(s) car r ying out the statut or y audit of the fi nancial statements, to express an assurance opinion on 
sustainability repor ting.
Member Stat es should set out requirements that ensure the quality of the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied 
out by independent assurance ser vices pro viders and consistent outcomes in the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting. Theref ore, all independent assurance ser vices providers should be subject to requirements that are 
equivalent to the requirements set out in Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (
35
)
as regar ds the assurance of sustainability repor ting, while being adap ted to the charact er istics of independent 
assurance ser vices pro viders which do not car r y out statut or y audits. In par ticular , Member State s should set out 
equivalent requirements as regards training and examination, continuing education, quality assurance system s, 
professiona l ethics, independence, objectivity , conf identiality and profess ional secrecy , appointment and dismissal, 
the org anisation of the w ork of independent assurance ser vices provid ers, investig ations and sanctions, and the 
repor ting of ir regular ities. This w ould also guarant ee a level pla ying field among all persons and fir ms allo wed by 
Member Stat es to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, including statutor y auditors. If an 
under taking seeks the opinion of an accredit ed independent assurance ser vices provid er other than the statutor y 
auditor on its sustainability repor ting, it should not in addition need to request an assurance opinion on its 
sustainability repor ting from the statutor y auditor .
Independent assurance ser vices provid ers that hav e already been accredited by a Member Stat e f or the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting should continue to be allowe d to do so. Like wise, Member States should ensure that 
independent assurance ser vices providers that, by the dat e of application of the new requirements on training and 
examination, are undergoing their accreditation process are not subject to those new accreditation requirements, 
provid ed the y compl ete that process within two yea rs of the dat e of application of those new requirements. Member 
State s should, however , ensure that all the independent assurance ser vices pro viders accredite d by a Member State f or 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting within two y ears of the date of application of the new accreditation 
requirements, acquire the necessar y knowledg e in sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting through continued profes sional education.
(62) In order to f oste r the free move ment of ser vices, Member State s should allo w independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers established in a diffe rent Member State to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in their 
terr itory . This w ould also f av our opening up the assurance mark et even when not all Member State s allo w f or the 
accreditation of independent assurance ser vices provid ers in their terr it or y . Where independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the terr it or y of a host Member State, that host 
Member State should be able to decide to super vise independent assurance ser vices providers, given the possibility 
to leverage on the implement ed framew ork f or the super vision of auditors car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting.
(63) Member States should ensure that when an under taking is required by Union la w to hav e elements of its 
sustainability repor ting ver ified by an accredit ed independent third par ty , the repor t of the accredited independent 
third par ty should be made available either as an annex to the manage ment repor t or by any other publicly 
accessible means. Such making ava ilable of that repor t should not pre-emp t the outcome of the assurance opinion 
of whic h the third-par ty ver ification should remain independent. It should not entail any duplication of w ork 
between the auditor or the independent assurance ser vices pro vider that expresses the assurance opinion and the 
accredite d independent third par ty .
(
35
) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 17 Ma y 2006 on statut or y audits of annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC 
(OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/36 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 23 ---
(64) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules concer ning the statut or y audit of annual and consolidated fi nancial statements. 
It is necessar y to ensure that consistent r ules apply to the audit of fi nancial stat ements and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting by the statut or y auditor . Directive 2006/43/EC should apply where the assurance opinion 
on sustainability repor ting is expressed by a statut or y auditor or an audit fir m.
(65) The r ules on the approval and recognition of statutor y auditors and audit fir ms should allow statutor y auditor s to 
qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Member States should ensure that statutor y auditors who 
wish to qualify f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting ha ve the necessar y level of theoretical knowledg e of 
subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice.
Theref ore, statut or y auditors should complet e practical training of at least eight months in the assurance of annual 
and consolidated sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices, taking account of previous 
emplo yment exper ience. Howe ver , statut or y auditors that have already been appro ved or recognised in a Member 
State should continue to be allo wed to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Likewise, Member Stat es 
should ensure that natural persons who are undergoing the approval process at the dat e of application of the 
requirements f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting established by this amending Directive are not subject to 
those requirements, provid ed they complet e the process within the f ollo wing two ye ars. Member Stat es should, 
however , ensure that statut or y auditors appro ved within two y ears of the date of application of those requirements 
and who wish to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting acquire the necessar y knowledg e in 
sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability repor ting via continued profes sional education. Natural 
persons who decide to be appro ved only as statut or y auditors f or statutor y audit should be able to decide at a later 
point in time to qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. In order to do so, such persons should 
meet the necessar y requirements set out by Member Stat es to ensure that they also hav e the necessar y level of 
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such 
knowledg e in practice.
(66) It should be ensured that the requirements imposed on auditors as regar ds the statutor y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting they car r y out are consiste nt. Theref ore, there should be at least one designate d person who 
is actively inv olved in car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting (‘ke y sustainability par tner ’). When 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, statut or y auditors should be required to devot e sufficient time 
and assign sufficient resources and exper tise in order to car r y out their duties appropr iately . The client account 
record should specify the f ees c harged f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting and an assurance fi le should be 
creat ed to include inf or mation relat ed to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Where the same statutor y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to include the assurance file in the audit file. However , requirements imposed on statut or y auditors 
relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting should only apply to those statut or y auditors that car r y out the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(67) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms that car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting should hav e a high level of 
tec hnical and specialised exper tise in the fi eld of sustainability .
(68) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to put appropr iate r ules in place to av oid the fe es on the statut or y 
audit being inf luenced or det er mined by the provision of additional ser vices to the audited entity or being based on 
any f or m of contingenc y . That Directive also requires Member Stat es to ensure that statutor y auditors car r ying out 
statut or y audits compl y with the r ules on professional ethics, independence, objectivity , confidentiality and 
professiona l secrecy . For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iate that those r ules be exte nded to statutor y auditors 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/37  

--- PAGE 24 ---
(69) In order to provid e f or unif or m assurance practices and high-quality assurance of sustainability repor ting across the 
U nion, the Commission should be em powered to adopt sustainability assurance standards by means of delega ted 
acts. Member States should be given the possibility of applying national assurance standards, procedures or 
requirements, as long as the Commission has not adopt ed an assurance standard by means of delegat ed acts 
co ver ing the same subject matt er . Such assurance standards should set out the procedures that the auditor is to 
perform in order to dra w its conclusions on the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Theref ore, the Commission 
should adop t assurance standards f or limited assurance by means of delegat ed acts bef ore 1 October 2026 . With a 
view to f acilitating the har monisation of the assurance of sustainability repor ting across Member State s, the CEA OB 
should be encouraged to adopt non-binding guidelines to set out the procedures to be performe d when expressing 
an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, pending the adop tion by the Commission of an assurance 
standard cover ing the same subject matter .
(70) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules on the statut or y audit of a group of under takings. Similar r ules should be set out 
f or the assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting.
(71) Directive 2006/43/EC requires statutor y auditors or audit fi r ms to present the results of their statut or y audit in an 
audit repor t. Similar r ules should be set out f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. The results of the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting should be presented in an assurance repor t. Where the same statut or y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to present the inf or mation about the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the audit repor t.
(72) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to set up a system of quality assurance review of statut or y auditors 
and audit fi r ms. T o ensure that quality assurance reviews also take place f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
and that the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews hav e appropr iat e professional education and relevant 
exper ience in sustainability repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting, that requirement to set up a 
system of quality assurance review should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. As a transitional 
measure, until 31 December 2025 , the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews of the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting should be exe mp te d from the requirement to have relevant exper ience in sustainability 
repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices.
(73) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to hav e in place an investig ations and sanctions regime f or statut or y 
auditors and audit fir ms car r ying out statutor y audits. That Directive also requires Member States to organise an 
effe ctive syste m of public o versight, and to ensure that regulatory ar rangements f or public oversight system s per mit 
effe ctive cooperation at U nion level in respect of Member States’ oversight activities. Such requirements should be 
extende d to statutor y auditors and audit fir ms that conduct assurance of sustainability repor ting in order to ensure 
the consistency of the investig ations, sanctions and o versight framew ork s set up f or the auditor ’s w ork in the 
statut or y audit and the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(74) Directive 2006/43/EC contains r ules on the appointment and dismissal of statut or y auditor s and audit fir ms 
car r ying out statutor y audits. Those r ules should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting to ensure 
the consistency of the r ules imp osed on auditors as regards their w ork on the statut or y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting.
(75) Pursuant to Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (
36
) , Member Stat es are 
required to ensure that shareholders of under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a regulated mark et 
in the Union, acting individually or collectively , hav e the r ight to put it ems on the agenda of the g eneral meeting, 
provid ed that each such it em is accompan ied by a justification or a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the g eneral 
meeting, and that the y hav e the r ight to table draf t resolutions f or it ems included or to be included on the ag enda of 
a general meeting, as the case ma y be. Where those r ights are subject to the condition that the relevant shareholder 
or shareholders hold a minimum stake in the under taking, such minimum stake is not to exce ed 5 % of the share 
capital. As regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting, shareholders should be able to exer cise the r ights set 
(
36
) Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of cer tain r ights of shareholders 
in listed compan ies (OJ L 184, 14.7.2007, p. 17).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/38 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 25 ---
out in Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC in order to table draf t resolutions to be adopt ed in the g eneral meeting, 
requir ing that, fi rstly , an accredit ed third par ty that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or network as the 
statut or y auditor or audit fi r m car r ying out the statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain elements of the 
sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t be made av ailable to the g eneral meeting.
For under takings subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements introduced by this amending Directive and that 
do not f all within the scope of Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC, shareholders which represent more than 5 % of the 
votin g r ights or 5 % of the capital of the under taking, acting individually or collectively , should also be given the 
r ight to table a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the g eneral meeting, requir ing that, firstly , an accredite d third par ty 
that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or netw ork as the statut or y auditor or audit fir m car r ying out the 
statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain elements of the sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t 
be made av ailable to the ge neral meeting.
(76) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member State s to ensure that each public-interest entity has an audit committee, and 
specifi es its tasks with regard to the statut or y audit. That audit committee should be assigned with cer tain tasks with 
regard to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Those tasks should include the obligation to inf or m the 
administrative or super visor y body of the public-inte rest entity of the outcome of the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, and to explain how the audit committee contr ibut ed to the integr ity of sustainability repor ting and what 
the role of the audit committee was in that process. Member Stat es should be able to allo w functions assigned to the 
audit committee relating to sustainability repor ting and relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting, to be 
performe d by the administrative or super visor y body as a whole or by a dedicated body established by the 
administrative or super visor y body .
(77) Directive 2006/43/EC contains requirements f or registration and oversight of third-countr y auditors and audit 
entities. T o ensure that a consistent framewor k exists f or the work of auditors in both the statutor y audit and the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting, it is necessar y to exte nd those requirements to the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting.
(78) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
37
) applies to statut or y auditors and 
audit fi r ms car r ying out statutor y audits of public-interest entities. T o ensure the independence of the statutor y 
auditor when car r ying out a statut or y audit, that Regulation establishes a limit concer ning the fees f or other ser vices 
that the statutor y auditor can obtain. It is impor tant to clar ify that the assurance of sustainability repor ting should 
not count in the calculation of that limit. In addition, Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 prohibits the provision of 
cer tain non-audit ser vices o ver cer tain per iods when the statut or y auditor is car r ying out the statutor y audit. 
Ser vices related to the preparation of sustainability repor ting, including any consulting ser vices, should also be 
considered as prohibit ed ser vices o ver the per iod prescr ibed in Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The prohibition of 
the provision of such ser vices should apply in all cases where the statutor y auditor car r ies out the statutor y audit of 
fi nancial stat ements.
T o ensure the independence of the statut or y auditor , cer tain non-audit ser vices should also be prohibit ed when the 
statut or y auditor is car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 requires 
statut or y auditors to repor t ir regular ities to the audite d entity and, under cer tain circumstances, to author ities 
designate d by the Member Stat es as responsible f or inv estigating such ir regular ities. Such oblig ation should also be 
extende d, as appropr iate, to statutor y auditors and audit fir ms as regards their w ork on the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting of public-interest entities.
(
37
) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Apr il 2014 on specific requirements regarding 
statutor y audit of public-int erest entities and repealing Commission Decision 2005/909/EC (OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 77).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/39  

--- PAGE 26 ---
(79) Directive 2004/109/EC assigns to national super visors the task of enf orcing compl iance with cor porat e repor ting 
requirements by under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the U nion. 
Ar ticle 4 of that Directive specifi es the content to be included in the annual fi nancial repor ts, but lacks an explicit 
referen ce to Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU, whic h require the preparation of a non-financial 
state ment and a consolidated non-fi nancial statement. As a consequence, national compet ent author ities of some 
Member Stat es hav e no leg al mandate to super vise those non-fi nancial statements, especially where those non- 
fi nancial statements are published in a separate repor t, outside of the annual fi nancial repor t, whic h Member States 
ma y cur rently allow . It is theref ore necessar y to inser t into Ar ticle 4(5) of Directive 2004/109/EC a referen ce to 
sustainability repor ting. It is also necessar y to require that the persons responsible within the issuer confir m in the 
annual fi nancial repor t that, to the best of their kno wledge, the manage ment repor t is prepared in accordance with 
the sustainability repor ting standards.
In addition, given the novel c haracter of the sustainability repor ting requirements, ESMA should issue guidelines f or 
national compet ent author ities to promote converg ent super vision of sustainability repor ting by issuers subject to 
Directive 2004/109/EC. Those guidelines should only apply to the super vision of under takings whose secur ities are 
admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the Union.
(80) In order to specify the requirements set out in this amending Directive, the po wer to adopt acts in accordance with 
Ar ticle 290 of the T reaty on the Functioning of the European U nion should be delega ted to the Commission in 
respect of establishing sustainability repor ting standards and establishing standards f or the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting. It is of par ticular im por tance that the Commission car r y out appropr iate consultations 
dur ing its preparatory w ork, including at exper t level, and that those consultations be conduct ed in accordance with 
the pr inciples laid down in the Inte r institutional Agreement of 13 Apr il 2016 on Bett er La w-Making (
38
) . In 
par ticular , to ensure equal par ticipation in the preparation of delegat ed acts, the European Parliament and the 
Council receive all documents at the same time as Member Stat es ’ exper ts, and their exper ts systematically hav e 
access to meetings of Commission exper t groups dealing with the preparation of delegat ed acts.
(81) The Commission should submit a repor t to the European P arliament and to the Council on the im plementation of 
this amending Directive, including, inte r alia: an assessment of the achi evement of the goals of this amending 
Directive, including the converg ence of repor ting practices between Member Stat es; an assessment of the number of 
small and medium-sized under takings using sustainability repor ting standards v oluntar ily ; an assessment of whether 
and how the scope of the repor ting requirements should be fur ther exte nded, in par ticular in relation to small and 
medium-sized under takings and to third-countr y under takings operating directly on the U nion inte r nal mark et 
without a subsidiar y under taking or a branch on the terr itory of the U nion; an assessment of the im plementation of 
the repor ting requirements on subsidiar y under takings and branches of third-countr y under takings introduced by 
this amending Directive, including an assessment of the number of third-countr y under takings whic h hav e a 
subsidiar y under taking or a branch subject to repor ting requirements in accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU; an 
assessment of the enf orcement mechanis m and of the relevant thresholds set out in Directive 2013/34/EU; an 
assessment of whether and how to ensure the accessibility f or people with disabilities to the sustainability repor ting 
published by under takings falling under the scope of this amending Directive.
The repor t on the im plementation of this amending Directive should be published by 30 Apr il 2029 and ever y three 
ye ars thereaf ter , and should be accompanied , if appropr iat e, by legislative proposals. By 31 December 2028 , the 
Commission should review and repor t on the level of concentration of the sustainability assurance mark et. The 
review should take into account the national regimes applicable to independent assurance ser vices provi ders and 
assess whether and to what extent such national regimes contr ibute to opening up the assurance market. By 
31 December 2028 , the Commission should assess possible legal measures to ensure suffic ient diversification of the 
sustainability assurance mark et and appropr iate sustainability repor ting quality . The repor t on the level of 
concentration of the sustainability assurance market should be transmitted to the European P arliament and the 
Council by 31 December 2028 and be accompan ied, if appropr iate, by legislative proposals.
(
38
) OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/40 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 27 ---
(82) Since the objectives of this amending Directive cannot be suffic iently achi eved by the Member Stat es but can rather , 
by reason of the scale or effe cts of the action, be bett er achi eved at Union level, the U nion ma y adopt measures, in 
accordance with the pr inciple of subsidiar ity as set out in Ar ticle 5 of the T reaty on European Union. In accordance 
with the pr inciple of propor tionality as set out in that Ar ticle, this amending Directive does not go be y ond what is 
necessar y in order to achi eve those objectives.
(83) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU should 
theref ore be amended according ly .
(84) The ECB was consult ed and delivered an opinion on 7 Sept ember 2021 ,
HA VE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE:
Ar ticle 1
Amendments to Directiv e 2013/34/EU
Directive 2013/34/EU is amended as f ollows :
(1) in Ar ticle 1, the f ollowi ng paragraphs are added:
‘3. The coordination measures prescr ibed by Ar ticles 19a, 29a, 29d, 30 and 33, point (aa) of the second 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1), Ar ticle 34(2) and (3) and Ar ticle 51 of this Directive shall also apply to the la ws, 
regulations and administrative provisions of the Member Stat es relating to the f ollowing under takings regar dless of 
their leg al f or m, provi ded that those under takings are larg e under takings, or small and medium-sized under takings, 
excep t micro under takings, whic h are public-inte rest entities as defined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of this 
Directive:
(a) insurance under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 2(1) of Council Directive 91/674/EEC (*);
(b) credit institutions as defined in point (1) of Ar ticle 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (**).
Member Stat es ma y c hoose not to apply the coordination measures refer red to in the first subparagraph of this 
paragraph to the under takings listed in points (2) to (23) of Ar ticle 2(5) of Directive 2013/36/EU of the 
European P arliament and of the Council (***).
4. The coordination measures prescr ibed by Ar ticles 19a, 29a and 29d shall not apply to fi nancial products liste d 
in points (b) and (f) of point (12) of Ar ticle 2 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European P arliament and of the 
Council (****).
5. The coordination measures prescr ibed by Ar ticles 40a to 40d shall also apply to the laws, regulations and 
administrative provis ions of the Member State s relating to subsidiar y under takings and branche s of under takings 
which are not go ver ned by the la w of a Member State but whose leg al f or m is compar able with the types of 
under takings liste d in Annex I.
_____________
(*) Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidate d accounts of 
insurance under takings (OJ L 374, 31.12.1991, p. 7).
(**) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on pr udential 
requirements f or credit institutions and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
(***) Directive 2013/36/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity 
of credit institutions and the pr udential super vision of credit institutions, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and 
repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
(****) Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 27 No vember 2019 on 
sustainability-related disclosures in the fi nancial ser vices sect or (OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1).’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/41  

--- PAGE 28 ---
(2) Ar ticle 2 is amended as f ollo ws:
(a) point (5) is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘(5) “net tur nover” means the amounts der ived from the sale of products and the pro vision of ser vices af ter 
deducting sales rebate s and value added tax and other taxe s directly linke d to tur no ver ; however , f or 
insurance under takings refe r red to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Ar ticle 1(3) of this Directive, “net 
tur nover” shall be def ined in accordance with Ar ticle 35 and point 2 of Ar ticle 66 of Council Directive 
91/674/EEC (*); f or credit institutions refer red to in point (b) of the fi rst subparagraph of Ar ticle 1(3) of this 
Directive, “net tur no ver” shall be def ined in accordance with point (c) of Ar ticle 43(2) of Council Directive 
86/635/EEC (**); and f or under takings f alling under the scope of Ar ticle 40a(1) of this Directive, “net 
tur nover” means the revenue as defined by or within the meaning of the financial repor ting framew ork on 
the basis of whic h the financia l statements of the under taking are prepared;
_____________
(*) Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidat ed accounts of 
insurance under takings (OJ L 374, 31.12.1991, p. 7).
(**) Council Directive 86/635/EEC of 8 December 1986 on the annual accounts and consolidate d accounts of 
banks and other f inancial institutions (OJ L 372, 31.12.1986, p. 1).’;
(b) the f ollowi ng points are added:
‘(17) “sustainability matters” means en vironmental, social and human r ights, and governance f actors, including 
sustainability f actors def ined in point (24) of Ar ticle 2 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088;
(18) “sustainability repor ting” means repor ting inf or mation relat ed to sustainability matters in accordance with 
Ar ticles 19a, 29a and 29d;
(19) “k ey intangible resources” means resources without phy sical substance on which the business model of the 
under taking fundamentally depends and which are a source of value creation f or the under taking;
(20) “independent assurance ser vices provider” means a conf or mity assessment body accredited in accordance 
with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council (*) f or the specific 
conf or mity assessment activity refer red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) of this 
Directive.
_____________
(*) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the 
requirements f or accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).’;
(3) in Ar ticle 19(1), the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘Large under takings, and small and medium-sized under takings, excep t micro under takings, which are public-int erest 
entities as def ined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 shall repor t inf or mation on the ke y intangible resources and 
explain how the business model of the under taking fundamentally depends on such resources and how such 
resources are a source of value creation f or the under taking.’;
(4) Ar ticle 19a is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘ Ar ticle 19a
Sust ainability repor ting
1. Larg e under takings, and small and medium-sized under takings, excep t micro under takings, which are public- 
inter est entities as defined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 shall include in the management repor t inf or mation 
necessar y to understand the under taking’s impact s on sustainability matters, and inf or mation necessar y to 
understand how sustainability matters aff ect the under taking’s development, performa nce and position.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/42 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 29 ---
The inf or mation ref er red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall be clearly identifiable within the manag ement repor t, 
through a dedicat ed section of the manag ement repor t.
2. The inf or mation refer red to in paragraph 1 shall contain:
(a) a br ief descr iption of the under taking’s business model and strateg y , including:
(i) the resilience of the under taking’s business model and strateg y in relation to r isks relat ed to sustainability 
matte rs;
(ii) the oppor tunities f or the under taking relat ed to sustainability matters;
(iii) the plans of the under taking, including implementing actions and related financia l and investment plans, to 
ensure that its business model and strateg y are compatible with the transition to a sustainable economy and 
with the limiting of g lobal war ming to 1,5 °C in line with the Par is Agreement under the U nited Nations 
Framew ork Conv ention on Climate Change adop ted on 12 December 2015 (the ‘P ar is Agreement’) and the 
objective of achieving climat e neutrality by 2050 as established in Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the 
European P arliament and of the Council (*), and, where relevant, the exposure of the under taking to coal-, 
oil- and gas-relat ed activities;
(iv) how the under taking’s business model and strategy take account of the interests of the under taking’s 
stake holders and of the im pacts of the under taking on sustainability matt ers;
(v) how the under taking’s strategy has been implemen ted with regard to sustainability matte rs;
(b) a descr iption of the time-bound targets related to sustainability matt ers set by the under taking, including, where 
appropr iat e, absolute greenhouse ga s emission reduction targets at least f or 2030 and 2050, a descr iption of the 
progress the under taking has made to wards achieving those target s, and a statement of whether the under taking’s 
targets related to environmental fact ors are based on conclusive scientific evidence;
(c) a descr iption of the role of the administrative, manag ement and super visor y bodies with regar d to sustainability 
matte rs, and of their exper tise and skills in relation to fulfilling that role or the access such bodies hav e to such 
exper tise and skills;
(d) a descr iption of the under taking’s policies in relation to sustainability matt ers;
(e) inf or mation about the existen ce of incentive sche mes linke d to sustainability matt ers which are offered to 
members of the administrative, management and super visor y bodies;
(f) a descr iption of:
(i) the due dilig ence process implemen ted by the under taking with regar d to sustainability matt ers, and, where 
applicable, in line with Union requirements on under takings to conduct a due diligence process;
(ii) the pr incipal actual or poten tial adverse impact s connect ed with the under taking’s own operations and with 
its value c hain, including its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply c hain, actions 
taken to identify and monitor those impacts, and other adverse im pacts whic h the under taking is required 
to identify pursuant to other Union requirements on under takings to conduct a due diligence process;
(iii) any actions taken by the under taking to prevent, mitig ate, remediate or br ing an end to actual or poten tial 
adverse impacts, and the result of such actions;
(g) a descr iption of the pr incipal r isks to the under taking relat ed to sustainability matters, including a descr iption of 
the under taking’s pr incipal dependencies on those matt ers, and how the under taking manag es those r isks ;
(h) indicators relevant to the disclosures refer red to in points (a) to (g).
U nder takings shall repor t the process car r ied out to identify the inf or mation that they hav e included in the 
manage ment repor t in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle. The inf or mation list ed in the fi rst subparagraph 
of this paragraph shall include inf or mation related to shor t-, medium- and long-term time hor izons, as applicable.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/43  

--- PAGE 30 ---
3. Where applicable, the inf or mation refe r red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall contain inf or mation about the 
under taking’s o wn operations and about its value chain, including its products and ser vices, its business relationships 
and its supply c hain.
For the first three y ears of the application of the measures to be adopt ed by the Member States in accordance with 
Ar ticle 5(2) of Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European P arliament and of the Council (**), and in the event that 
not all the necessar y inf or mation regarding its value c hain is av ailable, the under taking shall explain the eff or ts made 
to obtain the necessar y inf or mation about its value c hain, the reasons why not all of the necessar y inf or mation could 
be obtained, and its plans to obtain the necessar y inf or mation in the future.
Where applicable, the inf or mation refer red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also contain refe rences to, and additional 
explanations of, the other inf or mation included in the management repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 19, and the 
amounts repor ted in the annual financia l statements.
Member States ma y allow inf or mation relating to im pending developments or matte rs in the course of negotiation to 
be omitted in exce ptional cases where, in the duly justified opinion of the members of the administrative, 
manage ment and super visor y bodies, acting within the compet ences assigned to them by national la w and hav ing 
collective responsibility f or that opinion, the disclosure of such inf or mation w ould be ser iously prejudicial to the 
commercial position of the under taking, provided that such omission does not prevent a fair and balanced 
understanding of the under taking’s development, performance and position, and the imp act of its activity .
4. U nder takings shall repor t the inf or mation refer red to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Ar ticle in accordance with the 
sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 29b.
5. The management of the under taking shall inf or m the work ers’ representatives at the appropr iate level and 
discuss with them the relevant inf or mation and the means of obtaining and ver ifying sustainability inf or mation. The 
w orkers’ representatives’ opinion shall be communicat ed, where applicable, to the relevant administrative, 
manage ment or super visor y bodies.
6. By wa y of derog ation from paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Ar ticle, and without prejudice to paragraphs 9 and 10 of 
this Ar ticle, small and medium-sized under takings refe r red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, small and non-com plex 
institutions def ined in point (145) of Ar ticle 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, capti ve insurance under takings 
defined in point (2) of Ar ticle 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (***) and 
capti ve reinsurance under takings def ined in point (5) of Ar ticle 13 of that Directive ma y limit their sustainability 
repor ting to the f ollo wing inf or mation:
(a) a br ief descr iption of the under taking’s business model and strateg y ;
(b) a descr iption of the under taking’s policies in relation to sustainability matte rs;
(c) the pr incipal actual or poten tial adverse impacts of the under taking on sustainability matte rs, and an y actions 
taken to identify , monitor , prevent, mitig ate or remediate such actual or poten tial adverse im pacts;
(d) the pr incipal r isks to the under taking relat ed to sustainability matt ers and how the under taking manage s those 
r isks ;
(e) ke y indicators necessar y f or the disclosures refer red to in points (a) to (d).
Small and medium-sized under takings, small and non-complex institutions and capti ve insurance and reinsurance 
under takings that rely on the derogation refe r red to in the first subparagraph shall repor t in accordance with the 
sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings refer red to in Ar ticle 29c.
7. For fi nancial yea rs star ting bef ore 1 Januar y 2028 , by wa y of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, small 
and medium-sized under takings which are public-interest entities as defined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 ma y 
decide not to include in their manag ement repor t the inf or mation refer red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle. In such 
cases, the under taking shall, never theless, br ief ly state in its managemen t repor t why the sustainability repor ting was 
not provid ed.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/44 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 31 ---
8. U nder takings that comply with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Ar ticle and under takings 
that rely on the derogation laid down in paragraph 6 of this Ar ticle shall be deemed to hav e compl ied with the 
requirement set out in the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 19(1).
9. Prov ided that the conditions set out in the second subparagraph of this paragraph are met, an under taking 
which is a subsidiar y under taking shall be exem pt ed from the oblig ations set out in paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Ar ticle 
(“the exem pt ed subsidiar y under taking”) if such under taking and its subsidiar y under takings are included in the 
consolidate d managemen t repor t of a parent under taking, dra wn up in accordance with Ar ticles 29 and 29a. An 
under taking whic h is a subsidiar y under taking of a parent under taking that is established in a third countr y shall also 
be exem pt ed from the obligations set out in paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Ar ticle where such under taking and its 
subsidiar y under takings are included in the consolidated sustainability repor ting of that parent under taking that is 
established in a third countr y and where that consolidated sustainability repor ting is car r ied out in accordance with 
the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 29b or in a manner equivalent to those 
sustainability repor ting standards, as deter mined in accordance with an imp lementing act on the equivalence of 
sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 
2004/109/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (****).
The exem ption in the fi rst subparagraph shall be subject to the f ollo wing conditions:
(a) the management repor t of the exe mp te d subsidiar y under taking contains all of the f ollowi ng inf or mation:
(i) the name and registered off ice of the parent under taking that repor ts inf or mation at group level in 
accordance with this Ar ticle or in a manner equivalent to the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed 
pursuant to Ar ticle 29b of this Directive, as deter mined in accordance with an im plementing act on the 
equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 
23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC;
(ii) the weblink s to the consolidated management repor t of the parent under taking or , where applicable, to the 
consolidated sustainability repor ting of the parent under taking, as refe r red to in the fi rst subparagraph of 
this paragraph, and to the assurance opinion ref er red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 
34(1) of this Directive or to the assurance opinion refer red to in point (b) of this subparagraph;
(iii) the inf or mation that the under taking is exem pt ed from the oblig ations set out in paragraphs 1 to 4 of this 
Ar ticle;
(b) if the parent under taking is established in a third countr y , its consolidated sustainability repor ting and the 
assurance opinion on the consolidated sustainability repor ting, expressed by one or more person(s) or fir m(s) 
author ised to give an opinion on the assurance of sustainability repor ting under the law go ver ning that parent 
under taking, are published in accordance with Ar ticle 30 of this Directive, and in accordance with the la w of the 
Member Stat e by whic h the exe mp te d subsidiar y under taking is governed;
(c) if the parent under taking is established in a third countr y , the disclosures laid down in Ar ticle 8 of Regulation 
(EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*****), co ver ing the activities car r ied out by the 
exem pt ed subsidiar y under taking established in the U nion and its subsidiar y under takings, are included in the 
management repor t of the exem pt ed subsidiar y under taking, or in the consolidate d sustainability repor ting 
car r ied out by the parent under taking established in a third countr y .
The Member State by whose national la w the exem pt ed subsidiar y under taking is govern ed ma y require that the 
consolidate d management repor t or , where applicable, the consolidat ed sustainability repor t, of the parent 
under taking is published in a languag e that that Member State accepts, and that an y necessar y translation into such 
languag e is provi ded. Any translation that has not been cer tif ied shall include a statemen t to that eff ect.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/45  

--- PAGE 32 ---
U nder takings whic h are exem pt ed from prepar ing a management repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 37 shall not be 
oblig ed to provi de the inf or mation refe r red to in points (a)(i) to (iii) of the second subparagraph of this paragraph, 
provid ed that such under takings publish the consolidat ed management repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 37.
For the pur poses of the first subparagraph of this paragraph, and where Ar ticle 10 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 
applies, credit institutions refe r red to in point (b) of the fi rst subparagraph of Ar ticle 1(3) of this Directive that are 
per manently affiliated to a central body whic h super vises them under the conditions laid down in Ar ticle 10 of 
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall be treated as subsidiar y under takings of that central body .
For the pur poses of the fi rst subparagraph of this paragraph, insurance under takings ref er red to in point (a) of the fi rst 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 1(3) of this Directive that are par t of a group, on the basis of fi nancial relationships as refer red 
to in point (c)(ii) of Ar ticle 212(1) of Directive 2009/138/EC, and which are subject to group super vision in 
accordance with points (a) to (c) of Ar ticle 213(2) of that Directive shall be treated as subsidiar y under takings of the 
parent under taking of that group.
10. The exem pti on laid down in paragraph 9 shall also apply to public-int erest entities subject to the requirements 
of this Ar ticle, with the exce ption of large under takings which are public-int erest entities defined in point (a) of point 
(1) of Ar ticle 2 of this Directive.
_____________
(*) Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 30 June 2021 establishing the 
framew ork f or achi eving climate neutrality and amending Regulations (EC) No 401/2009 and (EU) 
2018/1999 (‘European Climate Law’) (OJ L 243, 9.7.2021, p. 1).
(**) Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 amending 
Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU, as 
regar ds cor porat e sustainability repor ting (OL L 322, 16.12.2022, p. 15).
(***) Directive 2009/138/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the 
taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) (OJ L 335, 17.12.2009, 
p. 1).
(****) Directive 2004/109/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on the 
har monisation of transparency requirements in relation to inf or mation about issuers whose secur ities are 
admitte d to trading on a regulated market and amending Directive 2001/34/EC (OJ L 390, 31.12.2004, 
p. 38).
(*****) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the 
establishment of a framework to f acilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 
(OJ L 198, 22.6.2020, p. 13).’;
(5) Ar ticle 20(1) is amended as f ollows:
(a) point (g) is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘(g) a descr iption of the diversity policy applied in relation to the under taking’s administrative, management and 
super visor y bodies with regar d to g ender and other aspects such as, age, disabilities or educational and 
profe ssional backg round, the objectives of that diversity policy , how it has been im plemented and the results 
in the repor ting per iod. If no such policy is applied, the stat ement shall contain an explanation as to why that 
is the case.’;
(b) the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘Under takings subject to Ar ticle 19a shall be deemed to hav e complied with the oblig ation laid down in point (g) 
of the first subparagraph of this paragraph where they include the inf or mation required under that point as par t 
of their sustainability repor ting and a reference thereto is included in the cor porate govern ance statement.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/46 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 33 ---
(6) Ar ticle 23 is amended as f ollows :
(a) in paragraph 4, point (b) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(b) the consolidate d fi nancial stat ements refer red to in point (a) and the consolidated manag ement repor t of the 
larg er body of under takings are drawn up by the parent under taking of that body , in accordance with the la w 
of the Member Stat e by whic h that parent under taking is governed, in accordance with this Directive, with 
the excep tion of the requirements laid down in Ar ticle 29a, or in accordance with internati onal accounting 
standards adopt ed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002;’;
(b) in paragraph 8, point (b)(i) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(i) in accordance with this Directive, with the excep tion of the requirements laid down in Ar ticle 29a,’;
(c) in paragraph 8, point (b)(iii) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(iii) in a manner equivalent to consolidated financial state ments and consolidated manag ement repor ts dra wn up 
in accordance with this Directive, with the excep tion of the requirements laid down in Ar ticle 29a, or ’;
(7) Ar ticle 29a is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘ Ar ticle 29a
Consolidated sust ainability repor ting
1. P arent under takings of a large group as refe r red to in Ar ticle 3(7) shall include in the consolidated manag ement 
repor t inf or mation necessar y to understand the group’s impacts on sustainability matters, and inf or mation necessar y 
to understand how sustainability matters aff ect the group’s development, performa nce and position.
The inf or mation refe r red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall be clearly identif iable within the consolidated manag ement 
repor t, through a dedicate d section of the consolidated manage ment repor t.
2. The inf or mation refer red to in paragraph 1 shall contain:
(a) a br ief descr iption of the group’s business model and strategy , including:
(i) the resilience of the group’s business model and strateg y in relation to r isks relat ed to sustainability matte rs;
(ii) the oppor tunities f or the group related to sustainability matt ers;
(iii) the plans of the group, including im plementing actions and related financia l and inv estment plans, to ensure 
that its business model and strategy are compatible with the transition to a sustainable econom y and with the 
limiting of g lobal war ming to 1,5 °C in line with the P ar is Agreement and the objective of achi eving climat e 
neutrality by 2050 as established in Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 and where relevant, the exposure of the 
group to coal-, oil- and g as-related activities;
(iv) how the group’s business model and strategy take account of the inter ests of the group’s stak eholders and of 
the im pacts of the group on sustainability matte rs;
(v) how the group’s strateg y has been im plemented with regar d to sustainability matters;
(b) a descr iption of the time-bound targe ts relat ed to sustainability matters set by the group, including, where 
appropr iat e, absolute greenhouse ga s emission reduction targets at least f or 2030 and 2050, a descr iption of the 
progress the group has made to wards achieving those targets , and a statement of whether the group’s targets 
related to environmental fact ors are based on conclusive scientific evidence;
(c) a descr iption of the role of the administrative, manag ement and super visor y bodies with regar d to sustainability 
matte rs, and of their exper tise and skills in relation to fulfilling that role or the access such bodies hav e to such 
exper tise and skills;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/47  

--- PAGE 34 ---
(d) a descr iption of the group’s policies in relation to sustainability matters;
(e) inf or mation about the existen ce of incentive sche mes linke d to sustainability matt ers which are offered to 
members of the administrative, management and super visor y bodies;
(f) a descr iption of:
(i) the due dilig ence process im plemented by the group with regar d to sustainability matt ers, and, where 
applicable, in line with Union requirements on under takings to conduct a due diligence process;
(ii) the pr incipal actual or poten tial adverse impact s connecte d with the group’s o wn operations and with its 
value c hain, including its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply c hain, actions taken 
to identify and monitor those im pacts, and other adverse im pacts which the parent under taking is required 
to identify pursuant to other Union requirements to conduct a due dilig ence process;
(iii) any actions taken by the group to prevent, mitig ate, remediate or br ing an end to actual or pote ntial adverse 
imp acts, and the result of such actions;
(g) a descr iption of the pr incipal r isks to the group relat ed to sustainability matters, including the group’s pr incipal 
dependencies on those matters, and how the group manages those r isks ;
(h) indicators relevant to the disclosures refer red to in points (a) to (g).
P arent under takings shall repor t the process car r ied out to identify the inf or mation that the y have included in the 
consolidate d manage ment repor t in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle. The inf or mation liste d in the first 
subparagraph of this paragraph shall include inf or mation relat ed to shor t-, medium- and long-t er m time hor izons, as 
applicable.
3. Where applicable, the inf or mation refe r red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall contain inf or mation about the 
group’s o wn operations and about its value c hain, including its products and ser vices, its business relationships and 
its supply c hain.
For the first three y ears of the application of the measures to be adopt ed by the Member States in accordance with 
Ar ticle 5(2) of Directive (EU) 2022/2464, and in the event that not all the necessar y inf or mation regar ding its value 
c hain is available, the parent under taking shall explain the eff or ts made to obtain the necessar y inf or mation about its 
value chain, the reasons why not all of the necessar y inf or mation could be obtained, and its plans to obtain the 
necessar y inf or mation in the future.
Where applicable, the inf or mation refer red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also include refe rences to, and additional 
explanations of, the other inf or mation included in the consolidat ed management repor t in accordance with 
Ar ticle 29 of this Directive and the amounts repor ted in the consolidat ed f inancial state ments.
Member States ma y allow inf or mation relating to im pending developments or matte rs in the course of negotiation to 
be omitted in exce ptional cases where, in the duly justified opinion of the members of the administrative, 
manage ment and super visor y bodies, acting within the compet ences assigned to them by national la w and hav ing 
collective responsibility f or that opinion, the disclosure of such inf or mation w ould be ser iously prejudicial to the 
commercial position of the group, pro vided that such omission does not prevent a f air and balanced understanding 
of the group’s development, performa nce, and position, and the impact of its activity .
4. Where the repor ting under taking identifies significant differ ences between the r isks f or , or impacts of, the group 
and the r isks f or , or impacts of, one or more of its subsidiar y under takings, the under taking shall pro vide an adequat e 
understanding of, as appropr iat e, the r isks f or , and impacts of, the subsidiar y under taking or subsidiar y under takings 
concer ned.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/48 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 35 ---
U nder takings shall indicate whic h subsidiar y under takings included in the consolidation are exem pt ed from annual or 
consolidate d sustainability repor ting pursuant to Ar ticles 19a(9) or 29a(8) respectively .
5. P arent under takings shall repor t the inf or mation refe r red to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Ar ticle in accordance 
with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 29b.
6. The management of the parent under taking shall inf or m the w orkers’ representatives at the appropr iat e level 
and discuss with them the relevant inf or mation and the means of obtaining and ver ifying sustainability inf or mation. 
The work ers’ representatives ’ opinion shall be communicated, where applicable, to the relevant administrative, 
manage ment or super visor y bodies.
7. A parent under taking that compl ies with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Ar ticle shall be 
deemed to hav e complied with the requirements set out in the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 19(1) and Ar ticle 19a.
8. Prov ided that the conditions set out in the second subparagraph of this paragraph are met, a parent under taking 
which is a subsidiar y under taking shall be exem pt ed from the oblig ations set out in paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Ar ticle 
(the “ex emp ted parent under taking”) if such parent under taking and its subsidiar y under takings are included in the 
consolidate d manage ment repor t of another under taking, drawn up in accordance with Ar ticle 29 and this Ar ticle. A 
parent under taking which is a subsidiar y under taking of a parent under taking that is established in a third countr y 
shall also be exe mp te d from the obligations set out in paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Ar ticle where such parent 
under taking and its subsidiar y under takings are included in the consolidated sustainability repor ting of that parent 
under taking that is established in a third countr y and where that consolidated sustainability repor ting is car r ied out 
in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 29b or in a manner equivalent 
to those sustainability repor ting standards, as determi ned in accordance with an im plementing act on the equivalence 
of sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 
2004/109/EC.
The exem ption in the fi rst subparagraph shall be subject to the f ollo wing conditions:
(a) the management repor t of the exe mp te d parent under taking contains all of the f ollo wing inf or mation:
(i) the name and registered off ice of the parent under taking that repor ts inf or mation at group level in 
accordance with this Ar ticle, or in a manner equivalent to the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed 
pursuant to Ar ticle 29b of this Directive, as deter mined in accordance with an im plementing act on the 
equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 
23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC;
(ii) the weblink s to the consolidated management repor t of the parent under taking or , where applicable, to the 
consolidated sustainability repor ting of the parent under taking, as refe r red to in the fi rst subparagraph of 
this paragraph, and to the assurance opinion ref er red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 
34(1) of this Directive or to the assurance opinion refer red to in point (b) of this subparagraph;
(iii) the inf or mation that the parent under taking is exem pt ed from the oblig ations set out in paragraphs 1 to 5 of 
this Ar ticle;
(b) if the parent under taking is established in a third countr y , its consolidated sustainability repor ting and the 
assurance opinion, expressed by one or more person(s) or fi r m(s) author ised to give an opinion on the assurance 
of sustainability repor ting under the national la w governing the parent under taking, are published in accordance 
with Ar ticle 30, and in accordance with the la w of the Member Stat e by which the exem pt ed parent under taking 
is govern ed;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/49  

--- PAGE 36 ---
(c) if the parent under taking is established in a third countr y , the disclosures laid down in Ar ticle 8 of Regulation 
(EU) 2020/852, co ver ing the activities car r ied out by the subsidiar y under taking established in the U nion and 
exem pt ed from sustainability repor ting on the basis of Ar ticle 19a(9) of this Directive, shall be included in the 
management repor t of the exem pt ed parent under taking, or in the consolidate d sustainability repor ting car r ied 
out by the parent under taking established in a third countr y .
The Member State by whose national law the exem pt ed parent under taking is govern ed ma y require that the 
consolidate d manag ement repor t or , where applicable, the consolidated sustainability repor t of the parent 
under taking is published in a languag e that that Member State accepts, and that an y necessar y translation into such 
languag e is provi ded. Any translation that has not been cer tif ied shall include a statemen t to that eff ect.
P arent under takings which are exem pt ed from prepar ing a management repor t pursuant to Ar ticle 37 shall not be 
oblig ed to provid e the inf or mation refer red to in points (a)(i) to (a)(iii) of the second subparagraph of this paragraph, 
provid ed that such under takings publish the consolidat ed management repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 37.
For the pur poses of the first subparagraph of this paragraph, and where Ar ticle 10 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 
applies, credit institutions refe r red to in point (b) of the fi rst subparagraph of Ar ticle 1(3) of this Directive that are 
per manently affiliated to a central body whic h super vises them under the conditions laid down in Ar ticle 10 of 
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall be treated as subsidiar y under takings of that central body .
For the pur poses of the fi rst subparagraph of this paragraph, insurance under takings ref er red to in point (a) of the fi rst 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 1(3) of this Directive that are par t of a group, on the basis of fi nancial relationships refer red to 
in point (c)(ii) of Ar ticle 212(1) of Directive 2009/138/EC, and which are subject to group super vision in accordance 
with points (a) to (c) of Ar ticle 213(2) of that Directive shall be treated as subsidiar y under takings of the parent 
under taking of that group.
9. The exem pti on laid down in paragraph 8 shall also apply to public-inte rest entities subject to the requirements 
of this Ar ticle, with the exce ption of large under takings which are public-int erest entities defined in point (a) of point 
(1) of Ar ticle 2 of this Directive.’;
(8) the f ollo wing chap te r is inser ted:
‘CHAPTER 6a
SUST AINABILIT Y REPOR TING ST AND ARDS
Ar ticle 29b
Sust ainability repor ting st andards
1. The Commission shall adopt delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 49 supplementing this Directive to 
provid e f or sustainability repor ting standards. Those sustainability repor ting standards shall specify the inf or mation 
that under takings are to repor t in accordance with Ar ticles 19a and 29a and, where relevant, shall specify the 
str ucture to be used to present that inf or mation.
In the delegat ed acts refe r red to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph the Commission shall, by 30 June 2023 , 
specify the inf or mation that under takings are to repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 19a(1) and (2), and Ar ticle 29a(1) 
and (2) where appropr iat e, which shall at least include the inf or mation that fi nancial mark et par ticipants subject to 
the disclosure oblig ations of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 need in order to compl y with those oblig ations.
In the delegat ed acts ref er red to in the fi rst subparagraph the Commission shall, by 30 June 2024 , specify:
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/50 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 37 ---
(i) complementary inf or mation that under takings are to repor t with regar d to the sustainability matters and 
repor ting areas listed in Ar ticle 19a(2), where necessar y ;
(ii) inf or mation that under takings are to repor t that is specific to the sector in which they operate.
The repor ting requirements laid down in the delegat ed acts refer red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall not ent er into 
f orce earlier than f our months af ter their adop tion by the Commission.
When adoptin g delegat ed acts to specify the inf or mation required under point (ii) of the third subparagraph, the 
Commission shall pa y par ticular attention to the scale of the r isks and im pacts related to sustainability matters f or 
each sector , taking account of the f act that r isks and impacts are higher f or some sectors than f or others.
The Commission shall, at least ever y three ye ars af ter their date of application, review the delegat ed acts adopt ed 
pursuant to this Ar ticle, taking into consideration the tec hnical advice of the European Financial Repor ting Ad visor y 
Group (EFRA G), and, where necessar y , it shall amend such delegat ed acts to take into account relevant developments, 
including developments with regard to internatio nal standards.
The Commission shall, at least once a y ear , consult the European Parliament, and consult jointly the Member Stat e 
Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance, refer red to in Ar ticle 24 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, and the A ccounting 
Regulat or y Committ ee, refer red to in Ar ticle 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, on EFRA G’s w ork programme as 
regar ds the development of sustainability repor ting standards.
2. The sustainability repor ting standards shall ensure the quality of repor te d inf or mation, by requir ing that it is 
understandable, relevant, ver if iable, comparable and represent ed in a faithful manner . The sustainability repor ting 
standards shall av oid im posing a dispropor tionate administrative burden on under takings, including by taking 
account, to the great est extent possible, of the work of g lobal standard-setting initiatives f or sustainability repor ting 
as required by point (a) of paragraph 5.
The sustainability repor ting standards shall, taking into account the subject matte r of a par ticular sustainability 
repor ting standard:
(a) specify the inf or mation that under takings are to disclose about the f ollowi ng en vironmental f actors:
(i) climate c hange mitig ation, including as regards scope 1, scope 2 and, where relevant, scope 3 greenhouse g as 
emissions;
(ii) climate c hange adaptation;
(iii) water and mar ine resources;
(iv) resource use and the circular econom y ;
(v) pollution;
(vi) biodiversity and ecosystems ;
(b) specify the inf or mation that under takings are to disclose about the f ollowi ng social and human r ights f actors:
(i) equal treatment and oppor tunities f or all, including ge nder equality and equal pa y f or w ork of equal value, 
training and skills development, the emp lo yment and inclusion of people with disabilities, measures ag ainst 
violence and harassment in the w orkplace, and diversity ;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/51  

--- PAGE 38 ---
(ii) w orking conditions, including secure emplo yment, w orking time, adequate wage s, social dialogue, freedom 
of association, existen ce of w ork s councils, collective bargai ning, including the propor tion of w orke rs 
covered by collective agreements, the inf or mation, consultation and par ticipation r ights of w orke rs, w ork - 
life balance, and health and safety ;
(iii) respect f or the human r ights, fundamental freedoms, democratic pr inciples and standards established in the 
Internati onal Bill of Human Rights and other core UN human r ights conventions, including the UN 
Convention on the Rights of P ersons with Disabilities, the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indige nous 
P eoples, the Internati onal Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Pr inciples and Rights at W ork 
and the fundamental convention s of the Internati onal Labour Org anization, the European Conv ention f or 
the prot ection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Social Char ter , and the Char ter 
of Fundamental Rights of the European Union;
(c) specify the inf or mation that under takings are to disclose about the f ollowi ng go ver nance f actors:
(i) the role of the under taking’s administrative, manag ement and super visor y bodies with regar d to 
sustainability matters, and their composition, as well as their exper tise and skills in relation to fulfilling that 
role or the access such bodies hav e to such exper tise and skills;
(ii) the main features of the under taking’s internal control and r isk manag ement systems, in relation to the 
sustainability repor ting and decision-making process;
(iii) business ethics and cor porat e culture, including anti-cor r upti on and anti-br iber y , the protection of 
whistleblowers and animal welf are;
(iv) activities and commitments of the under taking related to exe r ting its political inf luence, including its 
lobb ying activities;
(v) the manag ement and quality of relationships with custome rs, suppliers and communities affect ed by the 
activities of the under taking, including pa yment practices, especially with regard to late pa yment to small 
and medium-sized under takings.
3. The sustainability repor ting standards shall specify the f or ward-looking, retrospective, qualitative and 
quantitative inf or mation, as appropr iat e, to be repor ted by under takings.
4. Sustainability repor ting standards shall take account of the diff iculties that under takings ma y encounter in 
ga ther ing inf or mation from actors throughout their value chain, especially from those whic h are not subject to the 
sustainability repor ting requirements laid down in Ar ticle 19a or 29a and from suppliers in emerging mark ets and 
economies. Sustainability repor ting standards shall specify disclosures on value c hains that are propor tionate and 
relevant to the capacities and the c haracter istics of under takings in value chains, and to the scale and compl exity of 
their activities, especially those of under takings that are not subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements in 
Ar ticle 19a or 29a. Sustainability repor ting standards shall not specify disclosures that w ould require under takings to 
obtain inf or mation from small and medium-sized under takings in their value c hain that excee ds the inf or mation to be 
disclosed pursuant to the sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings refer red to in 
Ar ticle 29c.
The first subparagraph is without prejudice to Union requirements on under takings to conduct a due diligence 
process.
5. When adopting delegat ed acts pursuant to paragraph 1, the Commission shall, to the greates t exte nt possible, 
take account of:
(a) the w ork of g lobal standard-setting initiatives f or sustainability repor ting, and existing standards and frameworks 
f or natural capital accounting and f or greenhouse gas accounting, responsible business conduct, cor porat e social 
responsibility , and sustainable development ;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/52 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 39 ---
(b) the inf or mation that financia l market par ticipants need in order to compl y with their disclosure obligations laid 
down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 and the delega ted acts adopt ed pursuant to that Regulation;
(c) the cr iter ia, indicators and methodologies set out in the delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2020/852, including the tec hnical screening cr iter ia established pursuant to Ar ticle 10(3), Ar ticle 11(3), Ar ticle 
12(2), Ar ticle 13(2), Ar ticle 14(2) and Ar ticle 15(2) of that Regulation and the repor ting requirements set out in 
the delegat ed act adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 8 of that Regulation;
(d) the disclosure requirements applicable to benc hmark administrator s in the benc hmark stat ement and in the 
benc hmark methodology and the minimum standards f or the constr uction of EU Climate T ransition 
Benc hmark s and EU Par is-aligned Benc hmarks in accordance with Commission Deleg ated Regulations (EU) 
2020/1816 (
1
)*, (EU) 2020/1817 (
2
)* and (EU) 2020/1818 (
3
)*;
(e) the disclosures specified in the im plementing acts adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 434a of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013;
(f) Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU (
4
)*;
(g) Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (
5
)*;
(h) Regulation (EU) 2021/1119;
(i) Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
6
)*;
(j) Directive (EU) 2019/1937 of the European P arliament and of the Council (
7
)*.
Ar ticle 29c
Sust ainability repor ting st andards f or small and medium-sized under t akings
1. The Commission shall, by 30 June 2024 , adopt delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 49 supplementing this 
Directive to provid e f or sustainability repor ting standards propor tionate and relevant to the capacities and the 
c haracteri stics of small and medium-sized under takings and to the scale and compl exity of their activities. Those 
sustainability repor ting standards shall specify f or the small and medium-sized under takings refe r red to in point (1) 
(a) of Ar ticle 2 the inf or mation that is to be repor ted in accordance with Ar ticle 19a(6).
The repor ting requirements laid down in the delegat ed acts refer red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall not ent er into 
f orce earlier than f our months af ter their adop tion by the Commission.
2. Sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings shall take into account the cr it er ia 
set out in Ar ticle 29b(2) to (5). They shall also, to the ext ent possible, specify the str ucture to be used to present that 
inf or mation.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/53  

--- PAGE 40 ---
3. The Commission shall, at least ever y three y ears af ter their date of application, review the delegat ed acts adopt ed 
pursuant to this Ar ticle, taking into consideration the tec hnical advice of the EFRA G and, where necessar y , it shall 
amend such delegat ed acts to take into account relevant developments, including developments with regar d to 
internatio nal standards.
_____________
(
1
)* Commission Delega ted Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 
of the European P arliament and of the Council as rega rds the explanation in the benc hmark state ment of how 
envi ronmental, social and govern ance fact ors are ref lected in each benchmark provi ded and published (OJ L 406, 
3.12.2020, p. 1).
(
2
)* Commission Delega ted Regulation (EU) 2020/1817 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 
of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the minimum conte nt of the explanation on how 
envi ronmental, social and go ver nance fa ctors are ref lecte d in the benchmark methodology (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, 
p. 12).
(
3
)* Commission Delega ted Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 
of the European Parliament and of the Council as regar ds minimum standards f or EU Climate T ransition 
Benc hmark s and EU P ar is-aligned Benc hmark s (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 17).
(
4
)* Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU of 9 Apr il 2013 on the use of common methods to measure and 
communicate the life cy cle environmental performa nce of products and org anisations (OJ L 124, 4.5.2013, p. 1).
(
5
)* Directive 2003/87/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 13 Octobe r 2003 establishing a sche me 
f or greenhouse ga s emission allo wance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC 
(OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, p. 32).
(
6
)* Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the 
voluntary par ticipation by org anisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), repealing 
Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC (OJ L 342, 
22.12.2009, p. 1).
(
7
)* Directive (EU) 2019/1937 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection 
of persons who repor t breaches of U nion la w (OJ L 305, 26.11.2019, p. 17).’;
(9) the f ollo wing chap te r is inser ted:
‘CHAPTER 6b
SINGLE ELECTR ONIC REPOR TING FORMA T
Ar ticle 29d
Single electronic repor ting for mat
1. U nder takings subject to the requirements of Ar ticle 19a of this Directive shall prepare their manag ement repor t 
in the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in Ar ticle 3 of Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 (*) and 
shall mark up their sustainability repor ting, including the disclosures provid ed f or in Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 
2020/852, in accordance with the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in that Delegat ed Regulation.
2. P arent under takings subject to the requirements of Ar ticle 29a shall prepare their consolidated management 
repor t in the electronic repor ting f or mat specif ied in Ar ticle 3 of Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 and shall 
mark up their sustainability repor ting, including the disclosures provid ed f or in Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 
2020/852, in accordance with the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in that Delegat ed Regulation.
_____________
(*) Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 of 17 December 2018 supplementing Directive 2004/109/EC 
of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory te chnical standards on the specification 
of a sing le electronic repor ting f or mat (OJ L 143, 29.5.2019, p. 1).’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/54 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 41 ---
(10) in Ar ticle 30, paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. Member Stat es shall ensure that under takings publish within a reasonable per iod of time, which shall not 
exceed 12 months af te r the balance sheet date, the duly approved annual financia l state ments and the manag ement 
repor t, in the electronic repor ting f or mat ref er red to in Ar ticle 29d of this Directive where applicable, tog ether with 
the opinion and statement submitte d by the statutor y auditor or audit fir m refer red to in Ar ticle 34 of this Directive, 
as laid down by the laws of each Member State in accordance with Chapt er III of Title 1 of Directive (EU) 2017/1132 
of the European P arliament and of the Council (*).
Member Stat es ma y require under takings subject to Ar ticles 19a and 29a to mak e the manag ement repor t ava ilable to 
the public on their website, free of c harge. Where an under taking does not have a website, Member State s ma y require 
it to mak e a wr itt en cop y of its management repor t ava ilable upon request.
Where an independent assurance ser vices provider expresses the opinion refe r red to in point (aa) of the second 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1), that opinion shall be published tog ether with the documents ref er red to in the fi rst 
subparagraph of this paragraph.
Member Stat es ma y , however , exem pt under takings from the oblig ation to publish the manag ement repor t where a 
cop y of all or par t of any such repor t can be easily obtained upon request at a pr ice not exceeding its administrative 
cost.
The exem pti on laid down in the f our th subparagraph of this paragraph shall not apply to under takings subject to the 
requirements on sustainability repor ting laid down in Ar ticles 19a and 29a.
_____________
(*) Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 relating to cer tain 
aspects of compan y law (OJ L 169, 30.6.2017, p. 46).’;
(11) in Ar ticle 33, paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. Member States shall ensure that the members of the administrative, manage ment and super visor y bodies of an 
under taking, acting within the compet ences assigned to them by national la w , hav e collective responsibility f or 
ensur ing that the f ollowing documents are dra wn up and published in accordance with the requirements of this 
Directive and, where applicable, with the international accounting standards adopt ed pursuant to Regulation (EC) 
No 1606/2002, with Deleg ated Regulation (EU) 2019/815, with the sustainability repor ting standards refer red to in 
Ar ticle 29b or Ar ticle 29c of this Directive, and with the requirements of Ar ticle 29d of this Directive:
(a) the annual financial stat ements, the manage ment repor t and the cor porate governance stat ement when provided 
separately; and
(b) the consolidat ed financial statements, the consolidated manag ement repor ts and the consolidate d cor porate 
govern ance statement when provid ed separately .’;
(12) the title of Chapt er 8 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ A uditing and assurance of sustainability repor ting’;
(13) Ar ticle 34 is amended as f ollows :
(a) in paragraph 1, the second subparagraph is amended as f ollows:
(i) point (a)(ii) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(ii) whether the manage ment repor t has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements, 
excluding the requirements on sustainability repor ting laid down in Ar ticle 19a of this Directive;’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/55  

--- PAGE 42 ---
(ii) the f ollowing point is inser ted :
‘(aa) where applicable, express an opinion based on a limited assurance engag ement as rega rds the 
compliance of the sustainability repor ting with the requirements of this Directive, including the 
compliance of the sustainability repor ting with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant 
to Ar ticle 29b or Ar ticle 29c, the process car r ied out by the under taking to identify the inf or mation 
repor te d pursuant to those sustainability repor ting standards, and the compliance with the requirement 
to mark up sustainability repor ting in accordance with Ar ticle 29d, and as regar ds the compl iance with 
the repor ting requirements provided f or in Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852;’;
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘3. Member State s ma y allow a statut or y auditor or an audit fir m other than the one(s) car r ying out the 
statutor y audit of financia l statemen ts to express the opinion refer red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 1.’;
(c) the f ollowi ng paragraphs are added:
‘4. Member States ma y allow an independent assurance ser vices provid er established in their terr itory to 
express the opinion refer red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, provided that such 
independent assurance ser vices provi der is subject to requirements that are equivalent to those set out in Directive 
2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (*) as regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
as defined in point 22 of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive, in par ticular the requirements on:
(a) training and examination, ensur ing that independent assurance ser vices provi ders acquire the necessar y 
exper tise concer ning sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability repor ting;
(b) continuing education;
(c) quality assurance systems;
(d) professional ethics, independence, objectivity , conf identiality and professional secrecy ;
(e) appointment and dismissal;
(f) investig ations and sanctions;
(g) the orga nisation of the w ork of the independent assurance ser vices provider , in par ticular in term s of 
suff icient resources and personnel and the maintenanc e of client account records and fi les; and
(h) repor ting ir regular ities.
Member Stat es shall ensure that, where an independent assurance ser vices provider expresses the opinion refer red 
to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, that opinion is prepared in accordance 
with Ar ticles 26a, 27a and 28a of Directive 2006/43/EC and that, where applicable, the audit committee , or a 
dedicated committee , reviews and monitor s the independence of the independent assurance ser vices provid er in 
accordance with point (e) of Ar ticle 39(6) of Directive 2006/43/EC.
Member States shall ensure that independent assurance ser vices providers accredited bef ore 1 Januar y 2024 f or 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008, are not subject to the 
training and examination requirements refer red to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of this paragraph.
Member Stat es shall ensure that independent assurance ser vices provid ers that on 1 Januar y 2024 are undergoing 
the accreditation process in accordance with the relevant national requirements are not subject to the training and 
examination requirements refer red to in point (a) of the first subparagraph as regar ds the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting, provid ed they complet e that process by 1 Januar y 2026 .
Member Stat es shall ensure that the independent assurance ser vices provi ders refer red to in the third and f our th 
subparagraphs acquire the necessar y knowledg e in sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting via the continuing education requirement refer red to in point (b) of the first subparagraph.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/56 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 43 ---
If a Member Stat e, pursuant to the first subparagraph, decides to allow an independent assurance ser vices provider 
to express the opinion refe r red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, it shall also allo w a 
statutor y auditor other than the one(s) car r ying out the statutor y audit of fi nancial stat ements to do so, as 
provided f or in paragraph 3.
5. From 6 Januar y 2027 , a Member State that has made use of the option provided f or in paragraph 4 (the 
“host Member State ”) shall allow independent assurance ser vices provid er established in a Member State other 
than the host Member State (the “home Member State ”) to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
The home Member State shall be responsible f or the super vision of the independent assurance ser vices providers 
established in its terr itory , unless the host Member State decides to super vise the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting car r ied out by independent assurance ser vices provid ers in its terr itory .
If the host Member Stat e decides to super vise the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied out in its te r r it or y 
by independent assurance ser vices pro viders register ed in another Member State , the host Member State shall:
(a) not im pose more str ing ent requirements or liability on such independent assurance ser vices provi ders than 
those required f or assurance of sustainability repor ting by the national laws f or the independent assurance 
ser vices provid ers or auditor s established in that host Member State; and
(b) inf or m other Member Stat es about its decision to super vise the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied 
out by independent assurance ser vices providers established in other Member Stat es.
6. Member State s shall ensure that where an under taking is required by Union law to have elements of its 
sustainability repor ting ver if ied by an accredited independent third par ty , the repor t of the accredit ed 
independent third par ty is made ava ilable either as an annex to the manage ment repor t or by other publicly 
accessible means.
_____________
(*) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 17 Ma y 2006 on statut or y audits of 
annual accounts and consolidate d accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and 
repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC (OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87).’;
(14) the f ollo wing chap te r is inser ted:
‘CHAPTER 9a
REPORTING CONC ERNING THIRD-COUNTR Y UNDERT AKINGS
Ar ticle 40a
Sust ainability repor ts concer ning third-countr y under tak ings
1. A Member Stat e shall require that a subsidiar y under taking established in its terr it or y whose ultimate parent 
under taking is govern ed by the la w of a third countr y publish and make accessible a sustainability repor t co ver ing 
the inf or mation specifi ed in points (a)(iii) to (a)(v), points (b) to (f) and, where appropr iate, point (h) of Ar ticle 29a(2) 
at the group level of that ultimate third-countr y parent under taking.
The first subparagraph shall only apply to larg e subsidiar y under takings and to small and medium-sized subsidiar y 
under takings, excep t micro under takings, which are public-int erest entities as def ined in point (a) of point (1) of 
Ar ticle 2.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/57  

--- PAGE 44 ---
A Member Stat e shall require that a branch locat ed in its terr it or y , and which is a branch of an under taking govern ed 
by the la w of a third countr y , whic h is either not par t of a group or is ultimately held by an under taking that is f or med 
in accordance with the law of a third countr y publish and make accessible a sustainability repor t co ver ing the 
inf or mation specifi ed in points (a)(iii) to (a)(v), points (b) to (f) and, where appropr iate, point (h) of Ar ticle 29a(2), at 
the group level, or , if not applicable, the individual level, of the third-countr y under taking.
The r ule refer red to in the third subparagraph shall only apply to a branch where the third-countr y under taking does 
not hav e a subsidiar y under taking as ref er red to in the first subparagraph, and where the branch generat ed a net 
tur nover of more than EUR 40 million in the preceding financia l year .
The first and third subparagraphs shall only apply to the subsidiar y under takings or branche s refer red to in those 
subparagraphs where the third-countr y under taking, at its group level, or , if not applicable, the individual level, 
ge nerated a net tur nover of more than EUR 150 million in the Uni on f or each of the last two consecutive financia l 
ye ars.
Member States ma y require subsidiar y under takings or branches ref er red to in the fi rst and third subparagraphs to 
send them inf or mation about the net tur nover generat ed in their terr it or y and in the U nion by the third-countr y 
under takings.
2. Member Stat es shall require that the sustainability repor t communicated by the subsidiar y under taking or 
branch as refe r red to in paragraph 1 is dra wn up in accordance with the standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 40b.
By wa y of derogation from the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the sustainability repor t refer red to in paragraph 
1 of this Ar ticle ma y be drawn up in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to 
Ar ticle 29b or in a manner equivalent to those sustainability repor ting standards, as det er mined in accordance with 
an im plementing act on the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC.
Where the inf or mation required to draw up the sustainability repor t refer red to in the first subparagraph of this 
paragraph is not available, the subsidiar y under taking or branch refe r red to in paragraph 1 shall request the third- 
countr y under taking to pro vide them with all inf or mation necessar y to enable them to meet their oblig ations.
In the event that not all the required inf or mation is provided, the subsidiar y under taking or branch refe r red to in 
paragraph 1 shall draw up, publish and mak e accessible the sustainability repor t refe r red to in paragraph 1, 
containing all inf or mation in its possession, obtained or acquired, and issue a statement indicating that the third- 
countr y under taking did not make the necessar y inf or mation av ailable.
3. Member States shall require that the sustainability repor t refe r red to in paragraph 1 is published accompanied 
by an assurance opinion expressed by one or more person(s) or fir m(s) author ised to give an opinion on the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting under the national la w of the third-countr y under taking or of a Member Stat e.
In the event that the third-countr y under taking does not provide the assurance opinion in accordance with the fi rst 
subparagraph, the subsidiar y under taking or branch shall issue a stat ement indicating that the third-countr y 
under taking did not mak e the necessar y assurance opinion av ailable.
4. Member State s ma y inf or m the Commission on an annual basis of the subsidiar y under takings or branches of 
third-countr y under takings that fulf illed the publication requirement laid down in Ar ticle 40d and of the cases where 
a repor t was published but where the subsidiar y under taking or branch has acte d in accordance with the f our th 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Ar ticle. The Commission shall make publicly av ailable on its website a list of the 
third-countr y under takings that publish a sustainability repor t.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/58 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 45 ---
Ar ticle 40b
Sust ainability repor ting st andards f or third-countr y under tak ings
The Commission shall adopt by 30 June 2024 a delegat ed act in accordance with Ar ticle 49 supplementing this 
Directive to provi de f or sustainability repor ting standards f or third-countr y under takings that specify the 
inf or mation that is to be included in the sustainability repor ts refe r red to in Ar ticle 40a.
Ar ticle 40c
Responsibility f or draw ing up, publishing and making accessible sust ainability repor ts concer ning third- 
countr y under tak ings
Member Stat es shall provi de that the branche s of third-countr y under takings are responsible f or ensur ing, to the best 
of their kno wledge and ability , that their sustainability repor t is drawn up in accordance with Ar ticle 40a, and that 
that repor t is published and made accessible in accordance with Ar ticle 40d.
Member Stat es shall provid e that the members of the administrative, management and super visor y bodies of the 
subsidiar y under takings refer red to in Ar ticle 40a hav e collective responsibility f or ensur ing, to the best of their 
knowle dge and ability , that their sustainability repor t is drawn up in accordance with Ar ticle 40a, and that that 
repor t is published and made accessible in accordance with Ar ticle 40d.
Ar ticle 40d
Publication
1. The subsidiar y under takings and branches refer red to in Ar ticle 40a(1) of this Directive shall publish their 
sustainability repor t, tog ether with the assurance opinion and, where applicable, the state ment mentioned in the 
f our th subparagraph of Ar ticle 40a(2) of this Directive, within 12 months of the balance sheet date of the financia l 
ye ar f or which the repor t is dra wn up, as provided f or by each Member Stat e, in accordance with Ar ticles 14 to 28 of 
Directive (EU) 2017/1132 and, where relevant, in accordance with Ar ticle 36 of that Directive.
2. Where the sustainability repor t tog ether with the assurance opinion and, where applicable, with the stat ement 
published in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, are not made accessible, free of c harge, to the public on the 
website of the registe r refe r red to in Ar ticle 16 of Directive (EU) 2017/1132, Member Stat es shall ensure that the 
sustainability repor t tog ether with the assurance opinion and, where applicable, with the statement published by the 
under takings in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, are made accessible to the public in at least one of the 
official languages of the Union, free of charg e, no later than 12 months af te r the balance sheet date of the financial 
ye ar f or which the repor t is dra wn up, on the website of the subsidiar y under taking or the branch as refer red to in 
Ar ticle 40a(1) of this Directive.’;
(15) the title of Chapt er 11 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘CHAPTER 11
TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PR O VISIONS’;
(16) The f ollowi ng ar ticle is inser ted:
‘ Ar ticle 48i
T ransitional pro visions
1. U ntil 6 Januar y 2030 , Member State s shall per mit a Union subsidiar y under taking which is subject to 
Ar ticle 19a or 29a and whose parent under taking is not govern ed by the law of a Member Stat e to prepare 
consolidate d sustainability repor ting, in accordance with the requirements of Ar ticle 29a, that includes all U nion 
subsidiar y under takings of such parent under taking that are subject to Ar ticle 19a or 29a.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/59  

--- PAGE 46 ---
U ntil 6 Januar y 2030 , Member States shall per mit the consolidated sustainability repor ting refer red to in the first 
subparagraph of this paragraph to include the disclosures laid down in Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, 
co ver ing the activities car r ied out by all Union subsidiar y under takings of the parent under taking refer red to in the 
first subparagraph of this paragraph that are subject to Ar ticle 19a or 29a of this Directive.
2. The Union subsidiar y under taking refe r red to in paragraph 1 shall be one of the Uni on subsidiar y under takings 
of the group that generat ed the greates t tur no ver in the Uni on in at least one of the preceding fi ve fi nancial years, on a 
consolidate d basis where applicable.
3. The consolidated sustainability repor ting refe r red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle shall be published in 
accordance with Ar ticle 30.
4. For the pur pose of the exem ption laid down in Ar ticle 19a(9) and Ar ticle 29a(8), repor ting in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle shall be considered to be repor ting by a parent under taking at group level with respect to 
the under takings included in the consolidation. Repor ting in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 
1 of this Ar ticle shall be considered to fulf il the conditions refe r red to in point (c) of the second subparagraph of 
Ar ticle 19a(9) and point (c) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 29a(8), respectively .’;
(17) Ar ticle 49 is amended as f ollows :
(a) paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘2. The power to adopt delegat ed acts refer red to in Ar ticle 1(2), Ar ticle 3(13), Ar ticles 29b, 29c and 40b, and 
Ar ticle 46(2) shall be conferr ed on the Commission f or a per iod of 5 ye ars from 5 Januar y 2023 . The 
Commission shall dra w up a repor t in respect of the delega tion of po wer not later than nine months bef ore the 
end of the 5-year per iod. The delegatio n of power shall be tacitly exte nded f or per iods of an identical duration, 
unless the European P arliament or the Council opposes such exte nsion not later than three months bef ore the 
end of each per iod.
3. The delegatio n of power refe r red to in Ar ticle 1(2), Ar ticle 3(13), Ar ticles 29b, 29c and 40b, and Ar ticle 
46(2) ma y be rev oked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revok e shall put 
an end to the delegatio n of the po wer specified in that decision. It shall take eff ect the da y f ollowing the 
publication of that decision in the Off icial Jour nal of the Europ ean Union or at a later date specifi ed therein. It shall 
not affect the validity of an y delegat ed acts already in f orce.’;
(b) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘3b. When adopting delegat ed acts pursuant to Ar ticles 29b and 29c, the Commission shall take into 
consideration te chnical advice from EFRA G, provided that:
(a) such advice has been developed with proper due process, public o versight and transparency , with the 
exper tise and balanced par ticipation of relevant stak eholders, and with suffi cient public funding to ensure its 
independence, and on the basis of a w ork programme on which the Commission has been consult ed;
(b) such advice is accompanied by cost-benefit analyses that include analyses of the impacts of the tec hnical 
advice on sustainability matt ers;
(c) such advice is accompanied by an explanation of how it takes account of the elements listed in Ar ticle 29b(5);
(d) par ticipation in EFRA G’s w ork at tec hnical level is based on exper tise in sustainability repor ting and is not 
conditional on a f inancial contr ibution.
P oints (a) and (d) are without prejudice to the par ticipation of public bodies and national standard-setting 
organisati ons in the tec hnical w ork of EFRA G.
The accompan ying documents f or the EFRA G tec hnical advice shall be submitte d tog ether with that tec hnical 
advice.
The Commission shall consult jointly the Member State Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance, refer red to in 
Ar ticle 24 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, and the A ccounting Regulat or y Committ ee, refer red to in Ar ticle 6 of 
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, on the draf t deleg ated acts pr ior to their adoptio n as refer red to in Ar ticles 29b 
and 29c of this Directive.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/60 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 47 ---
The Commission shall request the opinion of the European Secur ities and Mark ets Author ity (ESMA), the 
European Banking Author ity (EBA) and the European Insurance and Occupational P ensions Aut hor ity (EIOP A) 
on the tec hnical advice provided by EFRA G, in par ticular with regar d to its consiste ncy with Regulation (EU) 
2019/2088 and the delegat ed acts adop ted pursuant to that Regulation. ESMA, EBA and EIOP A shall provid e 
their opinions within two months of the date of receipt of the request from the Commission.
The Commission shall also consult the European Environment Agen cy , the European Union Agen cy f or 
Fundamental Rights, the European Central Bank , the Committ ee of European Aud iting Oversight Bodies and the 
Platf or m on Sustainable Finance established pursuant to Ar ticle 20 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 on the 
tec hnical advice provid ed by EFRA G pr ior to the adop tion of delegat ed acts refe r red to in Ar ticles 29b and 29c 
of this Directive. If any of those bodies decide to submit an opinion, they shall do so within two months of the 
date of being consult ed by the Commission.’;
(c) paragraph 5 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘5. A delegat ed act adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 1(2), Ar ticle 3(13), Ar ticles 29b, 29c or 40b, or Ar ticle 46(2) 
shall enter into f orce only if no objection has been expressed either by the European P arliament or the Council 
within a per iod of two months of notifi cation of that act to the European P arliament and the Council or if, 
bef ore the expir y of that per iod, the European Parliament and the Council have both inf or med the Commission 
that the y will not object. That per iod shall be extende d by two months at the initiative of the European 
Parliament or the Council.’.
Ar ticle 2
Amendments to Directiv e 2004/109/EC
Directive 2004/109/EC is amended as f ollows:
(1) in Ar ticle 2(1) the f ollo wing point is added:
‘(r) “sustainability repor ting” means sustainability repor ting as defined in point (18) of Ar ticle 2 of Directive 
2013/34/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council (*).
_____________
(*) Directive 2013/34/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financia l 
stat ements, consolidat ed financia l state ments and related repor ts of cer tain types of under takings, amending 
Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 
78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19).’;
(2) Ar ticle 4 is amended as f ollows:
(a) in paragraph 2, point (c) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(c) state ments made by the persons responsible within the issuer , whose names and functions shall be clearly 
indicated , to the eff ect that, to the best of their knowledg e, the financia l state ments prepared in accordance 
with the applicable set of accounting standards give a tr ue and f air view of the assets, liabilities, financia l 
position and prof it or loss of the issuer and the under takings included in the consolidation taken as a whole 
and that the manage ment repor t includes a fair review of the development and performa nce of the business 
and the position of the issuer and the under takings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, tog ether 
with a descr ip tion of the pr incipal r isks and uncer tainties that they f ace and, where appropr iat e, that it is 
prepared in accordance with sustainability repor ting standards refe r red to in Ar ticle 29b of Directive 
2013/34/EU and with the specifications adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 8(4) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (*).
_____________
(*) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the 
establishment of a framew ork to f acilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 
(OJ L 198, 22.6.2020, p. 13).’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/61  

--- PAGE 48 ---
(b) paragraphs 4 and 5 are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘4. The fi nancial stat ements shall be audite d in accordance with the fi rst subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) and 
Ar ticle 34(2) of Directive 2013/34/EU.
The statutor y auditor shall deliver the opinion and stat ement on the manag ement repor t refe r red to in points (a) 
and (b) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) and in Ar ticle 34(2) of Directive 2013/34/EU.
The audit repor t, refer red to in Ar ticle 28 of Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the 
Council (*), signed by the person or persons responsible f or car r ying out the w ork set out in Ar ticle 34(1) and (2) 
of Directive 2013/34/EU shall be disclosed in full to the public tog ether with the annual fi nancial repor t.
Where applicable, an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting shall be pro vided in accordance with point (aa) 
of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) and Ar ticle 34(2) to (5) of Directive 2013/34/EU.
The assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting refer red to in Ar ticle 28a of Directive 2006/43/EC shall be 
disclosed in full to the public tog ether with the annual fi nancial repor t.
5. The management repor t shall be dra wn up in accordance with Ar ticles 19, 19a and 20, and Ar ticle 29d(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU, and shall include the specif ications adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 8(4) of 
Regulation (EU) 2020/852, when drawn up by under takings ref er red to in those provisions.
Where the issuer is required to prepare consolidat ed accounts, the consolidated manage ment repor t shall be drawn 
up in accordance with Ar ticles 29 and 29a and Ar ticle 29d(2) of Directive 2013/34/EU and shall include the 
specifi cations adop ted pursuant to Ar ticle 8(4) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, when dra wn up by under takings 
refer red to in those pro visions.
_____________
(*) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 Ma y 2006 on statut or y audits of 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and 
repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC (OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87).’;
(3) Ar ticle 23(4) is amended as f ollows:
(a) the third and f our th subparagraphs are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure refer red to in Ar ticle 27(2) of this Directive, tak e the 
necessar y decisions on the equivalence of accounting standards under the conditions set out in Ar ticle 30(3) of 
this Directive and on the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards as refer red to in Ar ticle 29b of Directive 
2013/34/EU which are used by third-countr y issuers. If the Commission decides that the accounting standards or 
the sustainability repor ting standards of a third countr y are not equivalent, it ma y allow the issuers concer ned to 
continue using such standards dur ing an appropr iat e transitional per iod.
In the cont ext of the third subparagraph of this paragraph, the Commission shall also adopt, by means of delegat ed 
acts adopt ed in accordance with Ar ticle 27(2a), (2b) and (2c), and subject to the conditions laid down in Ar ticles 
27a and 27b, measures that aim to establish ge neral equivalence cr ite r ia rega rding accounting standards and 
sustainability repor ting standards relevant to issuers of more than one countr y .’;
(b) the f ollo wing subparagraph is added:
‘ The cr it er ia that the Commission shall use when assessing the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards 
used by third-countr y issuers refer red to in the third subparagraph shall at least ensure the f ollo wing:
(a) that the sustainability repor ting standards require under takings to disclose inf or mation on en vironmental, 
social and governance fact ors;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/62 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 49 ---
(b) that the sustainability repor ting standards require under takings to disclose inf or mation necessar y to 
understand their im pacts on sustainability matters, and inf or mation necessar y to understand how 
sustainability matters aff ect their development, perf or mance and position.’;
(4) the f ollowing Ar ticle is inser te d:
‘ Ar ticle 28d
ESMA guidelines
Af ter consulting the European En vironment Age ncy and the European U nion Agen cy f or Fundamental Rights, ESMA 
shall issue guidelines in accordance with Ar ticle 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 on the super vision of 
sustainability repor ting by national compet ent author ities.’.
Ar ticle 3
Amendments to Directiv e 2006/43/EC
Directive 2006/43/EC is amended as f ollows :
(1) Ar ticle 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ Ar ticle 1
Subject matter
This Directive establishes r ules concer ning the statutor y audit of annual and consolidate d accounts and the assurance 
of annual and consolidated sustainability repor ting.’;
(2) Ar ticle 2 is amended as f ollo ws:
(a) points 2 to 6 are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘2. “statut or y auditor” means a natural person who is appro ved in accordance with this Directive by the 
compe tent author ities of a Member State to car r y out statut or y audits and, where applicable, the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting;
3. “audit fir m” means a lega l person or an y other entity , regar dless of its legal f or m, that is approved in 
accordance with this Directive by the compet ent author ities of a Member State to car r y out statut or y audits 
and, where applicable, the assurance of sustainability repor ting;
4. “third-countr y audit entity” means an entity , regardl ess of its leg al f or m, which car r ies out audits of the annual 
or consolidated fi nancial state ments, or , where applicable, the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a 
compan y incor porated in a third countr y , other than an entity which is register ed as an audit fir m in an y 
Member State as a consequence of approval in accordance with Ar ticle 3;
5. “third-countr y auditor” means a natural person who car r ies out audits of the annual or consolidate d fi nancial 
stat ements or , where applicable, the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a compan y incor porat ed in a 
third countr y , other than a person who is register ed as a statutor y auditor in an y Member State as a 
consequence of approval in accordance with Ar ticles 3 and 44;
6. “group auditor” means the statut or y auditor(s) or audit fi r m(s) car r ying out the statutor y audit of the 
consolidat ed accounts or , where applicable, the assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting;’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/63  

--- PAGE 50 ---
(b) the f ollowi ng point is inser ted:
‘16a. “k ey sustainability par tner(s)” means:
(a) the statut or y auditor(s) designate d by an audit fi r m f or a par ticular assurance engag ement concer ning 
sustainability repor ting as being pr imar ily responsible f or car r ying out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting on behalf of the audit fi r m; or
(b) in the case of the assurance of consolidate d sustainability repor ting at least the statutor y auditor(s) 
designate d by an audit fir m as being pr imar ily responsible f or car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting at the level of the group and the statutor y auditor(s) designat ed as being 
pr imar ily responsible at the level of mater ial subsidiar ies; or
(c) the statut or y auditor(s) who sign(s) the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting ref er red to in 
Ar ticle 28a;’;
(c) the f ollowi ng points are added:
‘21. “sustainability repor ting” means sustainability repor ting as def ined in point (18) of Ar ticle 2 of Directive 
2013/34/EU;
22. “assurance of sustainability repor ting” means the perf or mance of procedures resulting in the opinion 
expressed by the statutor y auditor or audit fi r m in accordance with point (aa) of the second subparagraph 
of Ar ticle 34(1) and Ar ticle 34(2) of Directive 2013/34/EU;
23. “independent assurance ser vices provider” means a conf or mity assessment body accredit ed in accordance 
with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*) f or the specifi c 
conf or mity assessment activity ref er red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU.
_____________
(*) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the 
requirements f or accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).’;
(3) Ar ticle 6 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ Ar ticle 6
Educational qualif ications
1. Without prejudice to Ar ticle 11, a natural person ma y be approved to car r y out a statutor y audit only af ter 
hav ing attained university entrance or equivalent level, then compl eted a course of theoretical instr uction, undergone 
practical training and passed an examination of profe ssional compet ence of university final or equivalent examination 
level, organised or recognised by the Member State concer ned.
2. A natural person ma y , in addition to the approval to car r y out statutor y audits provid ed f or in paragraph 1 of 
this Ar ticle, be appro ved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting when the additional specifi c 
requirements of Ar ticle 7(2), Ar ticle 8(3), the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 10(1) and the f our th subparagraph of 
Ar ticle 14(2) of this Directive are met.
3. The compe tent author ities refer red to in Ar ticle 32 shall cooperate with each other with a view to achi eving a 
conver gence of the requirements set out in this Ar ticle. When engaging in such cooperation, those compet ent 
author ities shall take into account developments in auditing and in the audit profes sion and, in par ticular , 
conver gence that has already been achieve d by the profess ion. They shall cooperate with the Committ ee of European 
Aud iting Oversight Bodies (CEA OB) and the compe tent author ities refe r red to in Ar ticle 20 of Regulation (EU) 
No 537/2014 in so f ar as such converg ence relates to the statut or y audit and assurance of sustainability repor ting of 
public-inte rest entities.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/64 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 51 ---
(4) Ar ticle 7 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ Ar ticle 7
Exa mination of professional competence
1. The examination of professional compet ence refer red to in Ar ticle 6 shall guarant ee the necessar y level of 
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to statut or y audit and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice. At 
least par t of that examination shall be wr itt en.
2. In order f or the statutor y auditor to also be approved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
examination of professional compet ence refer red to in Ar ticle 6 shall guarantee the necessar y level of theoretical 
knowle dge of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in 
practice. At least par t of that examination shall be wr itt en.’;
(5) in Ar ticle 8, the f ollowi ng paragraph is added:
‘3. In order f or the statut or y auditor to also be appro ved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
test of theoretical kno wledge refe r red to in paragraph 1 shall also cover at least the f ollowi ng subjects:
(a) legal requirements and standards relating to the preparation of annual and consolidat ed sustainability repor ting;
(b) sustainability analysis;
(c) due diligence processes with regard to sustainability matte rs;
(d) legal requirements and assurance standards f or the sustainability repor ting refe r red to in Ar ticle 26a.’;
(6) in Ar ticle 10(1), the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘In order f or the statutor y auditor or the trainee to also be approved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, at least eight months of the practical training ref er red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall be on the 
assurance of annual and consolidated sustainability repor ting or on other sustainability-related ser vices.’;
(7) Ar ticle 12 is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘ Ar ticle 12
Combination of practical training and theoretical instr uction
1. Member States ma y provid e that per iods of theoretical instr uction in the subjects refe r red to in Ar ticle 8(1) 
and (2) shall count to wards the per iods of profes sional activity refer red to in Ar ticle 11, provided that such 
instr uction is attest ed by an examination recognised by the Member State . Such instr uction shall not last less than 
one ye ar , nor ma y it reduce the per iod of profes sional activity by more than f our ye ars.
2. The per iod of professional activity and practical training shall not be shor ter than the course of theoretical 
instr uction tog ether with the practical training required under the f irst subparagraph of Ar ticle 10(1).’;
(8) in Ar ticle 14(2), the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘In order f or the statut or y auditor to also be approved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
apti tude test refe r red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall cover the statut or y auditor ’s adequate kno wledge of the la ws 
and regulations of the host Member Stat e in so f ar as it is relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/65  

--- PAGE 52 ---
(9) the f ollo wing Ar ticle is inser ted :
‘ Ar ticle 14a
Statu t or y audit ors appro v ed or recognised before 1 Januar y 2024 and persons undergoing the appro val 
process f or st atutory audit ors on 1 Januar y 2024
Member Stat es shall ensure that statut or y auditors that are appro ved or recognised to car r y out statutor y audits bef ore 
1 Januar y 2024 are not subject to the requirements of Ar ticle 7(2), Ar ticle 8(3), the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 
10(1) and the f our th subparagraph of Ar ticle 14(2).
Member Stat es shall ensure that persons that on 1 Januar y 2024 are undergoing the appro val process provided f or in 
Ar ticles 6 to 14 are not subject to the requirements of Ar ticle 7(2), Ar ticle 8(3), the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 
10(1) and the f our th subparagraph of Ar ticle 14(2), provided the y compl ete that process by 1 Januar y 2026 .
Member Stat es shall ensure that statutor y auditors approved bef ore 1 Januar y 2026 who wish to car r y out the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting acquire the necessar y knowledg e of sustainability repor ting and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting, including of the subjects list ed in Ar ticle 8(3), via the continuing education refer red to in 
Ar ticle 13.’;
(10) Ar ticle 16 is amended as f ollows :
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. As regards statutor y auditors , the public register shall contain at least the f ollowing inf or mation:
(a) name, address and registration number;
(b) if applicable, the name, address, website address and registration number of the audit fir m(s) by whic h the 
statut or y auditor is emplo y ed, or with whom he or she is associated as a par tner or other wise;
(c) whether the statut or y auditor is also approved f or car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting;
(d) all other registration(s) as statut or y auditor with the compet ent author ities of other Member States and as 
auditor with third countr ies, including the name(s) of the registration author ity(ies), and, if applicable, the 
registration number(s), and an indication of whether the registration concer ns the statut or y audit, the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting, or both.’;
(b) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The register shall indicate whether third-countr y auditors as refer red to in the fi rst subparagraph are register ed f or 
car r ying out the statutor y audit, the assurance of sustainability repor ting, or both.’;
(11) Ar ticle 17 is amended as f ollows :
(a) in paragraph 1, point (e) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(e) name and registration number of all statutor y auditor s emplo y ed by , or associated as par tners or other wise 
with, the audit fir m, and an indication of whether they are also approved f or car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting;’;
(b) in paragraph 1, point (i) is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘(i) all other registration(s) as audit fi r m with the compet ent author ities of other Member States and as audit 
entity with third countr ies, including the name(s) of the registration author ity(ies), and, if applicable, the 
registration number(s), and an indication of whether the registration concer ns the statut or y audit, the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting, or both.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/66 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 53 ---
(c) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The register shall indicate whether third-countr y audit entities as refer red to in the fi rst subparagraph are 
registere d f or car r ying out the statut or y audit, the assurance of sustainability repor ting, or both.’;
(12) Ar ticle 24b is amended as f ollo ws:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. Member Stat es shall ensure that, when the statutor y audit is car r ied out by an audit fir m, that audit fi r m 
designates at least one ke y audit par tner . The audit fi r m shall provi de the ke y audit par tner(s) with suffi cient 
resources and with personnel that hav e the necessar y compet ence and capabilities to car r y out his, her or its 
duties appropr iat ely .
Member State s shall ensure that, when the assurance of sustainability repor ting is car r ied out by an audit fir m, 
that audit fi r m designates at least one ke y sustainability par tner , who ma y be (one of) the ke y audit par tner(s). 
The audit fir m shall provide the ke y sustainability par tner(s) with suffi cient resources and with personnel that 
hav e the necessar y compet ence and capabilities to car r y out his, her or its duties appropr iat ely .
Secur ing audit and assurance quality , independence and compet ence shall be the main cr iter ia when the audit 
fi r m selects the ke y audit par tner(s) and, where applicable, the ke y sustainability par tner(s) to be designated.
The ke y audit par tner(s) shall be actively inv olved in the car r ying-out of the statut or y audit. The ke y sustainability 
par tner shall be actively inv olved in the car r ying-out of the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(b) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘2a. When car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the statutor y auditor shall devot e sufficient 
time to the enga gement and shall assign suff icient resources to enable him or her to car r y out his or her duties 
appropr iat ely .’;
(c) in paragraph 4, points (b) and (c) are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘(b) in the case of an audit fi r m, the name(s) of the ke y audit par tner(s) and, where applicable, the name(s) of the 
ke y sustainability par tner(s);
(c) the f ees c harged f or the statut or y audit, the f ees c harged f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the 
f ees charg ed f or other ser vices in an y fi nancial y ear .’;
(d) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘5a. A statutor y auditor or an audit fi r m shall create an assurance file f or each assurance engag ement 
concer ning sustainability repor ting.
The statut or y auditor or the audit fir m shall document at least the data recorded pursuant to Ar ticle 22b as 
regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
The statutor y auditor or the audit fir m shall retain an y other data and documents that are of im por tance in 
suppor t of the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting refe r red to in Ar ticle 28a and f or monitori ng 
compliance with this Directive and other applicable leg al requirements as regards the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting.
The assurance file shall be closed no later than 60 da ys af ter the date of signature of the assurance repor t on 
sustainability repor ting refer red to in Ar ticle 28a.
Where the same statut or y auditor car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial statements and the assurance 
of sustainability repor ting, the assurance fil e ma y be included in the audit fi le.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/67  

--- PAGE 54 ---
(e) paragraph 6 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ The statutor y auditor or the audit fir m shall kee p records of an y complaints made in wr iting about the 
performa nce of the statutor y audits car r ied out and about the performa nce of assurance enga gements 
concer ning sustainability repor ting car r ied out.’;
(13) Ar ticle 25 is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘ Ar ticle 25
Audit and assurance fees
Member States shall ensure that adequate r ules are in place which provid e that f ees f or statut or y audits and the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting:
(a) are not inf luenced or det er mined by the provi sion of additional ser vices to the entity that is the subject of the 
statutor y audit or the assurance of sustainability repor ting; and
(b) cannot be based on an y f or m of continge ncy .’;
(14) the f ollo wing Ar ticles are inser te d:
‘ Ar ticle 25b
Professiona l ethics, independence, objectivity , conf identiality and prof essional secrecy as regards the 
assurance of sust ainability repor ting
The requirements in Ar ticles 21 to 24a as regards the statutor y audit of financia l stat ements shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
Ar ticle 25c
Prohibited non-audit ser vices in cases where the st atut or y audito r car r ies out the assurance of sust ainability 
repor ting of a public-interest entity
1. A statutor y auditor or an audit fi r m car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a public-interest 
entity , or any member of the netw ork to which the statut or y auditor or the audit fir m belongs, shall not directly or 
indirectly provide to the public-interest entity that is the subject of the assurance of sustainability repor ting, to its 
parent under taking or to its controlled under takings within the U nion the prohibited non-audit ser vices refe r red to 
in points (b) and (c) and points (e) to (k) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 
in:
(a) the per iod between the beginning of the per iod subject to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the issuing 
of the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting; and
(b) the fi nancial y ear immediately preceding the per iod refer red to in point (a) of this paragraph in relation to the 
ser vices refe r red to in point (e) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014.
2. A statut or y auditor or an audit fi r m car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting of public-interest 
entities and, where the statut or y auditor or the audit fi r m belongs to a netw ork , an y member of such network, ma y 
provid e to the public-int erest entity that is the subject of the assurance of sustainability repor ting, to its parent 
under taking or to its controlled under takings non-audit ser vices other than the prohibit ed non-audit ser vices 
refer red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, or if applicable, the prohibited non-audit ser vices refe r red to in the second 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or ser vices considered by Member States to represent 
a threat to independence as refer red to in Ar ticle 5(2) of that Regulation, subject to the approval of the audit 
committee af ter it has properly assessed threats to independence and the safeguards applied in accordance with 
Ar ticle 22b of this Directive.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/68 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 55 ---
3. When a member of a netw ork to which the statut or y auditor or the audit fi r m car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting of a public-interest entity belongs provid es the prohibit ed non-audit ser vices refe r red to in 
paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle to an under taking incor porated in a third countr y whic h is controlled by the public- 
inter est entity that is the subject of assurance of sustainability repor ting, the statut or y auditor or the audit fir m 
concer ned shall assess whether his, her or its independence would be comprom ised by such provision of ser vices by 
the member of the netw ork.
If his, her or its independence is affect ed, the statutor y auditor or the audit fir m shall apply safeguards in order to 
mitig ate the threats caused by the provi sion of prohibit ed non-audit ser vices refe r red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle 
in a third countr y . The statut or y auditor or the audit fir m ma y continue to car r y out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting of the public-interest entity only if he, she or it can justify , in accordance with Ar ticle 22b, that the 
provis ion of such ser vices does not aff ect his, her or its professiona l judge ment and the assurance repor t on 
sustainability repor ting.
Ar ticle 25d
Ir regular ities
Ar ticle 7 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a statut or y auditor or an audit fi r m car r ying 
out the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a public-interest entity .’;
(15) the f ollo wing Ar ticle is inser ted :
‘ Ar ticle 26a
Assurance st andards for sust ainability repor ting
1. Member States shall require statut or y auditors and audit fi r ms to car r y out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting in compl iance with the assurance standards adopt ed by the Commission in accordance with paragraph 3.
2. Member States ma y apply national assurance standards, procedures or requirements as long as the Commission 
has not adopt ed an assurance standard cover ing the same subject matte r .
Member States shall communicate the national assurance standards, procedures or requirements to the Commission 
at least three months bef ore their entr y into f orce.
3. The Commission shall, no later than 1 October 2026 , adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 48a in 
order to supplement this Directive in order to provide f or limite d assurance standards setting out the procedures that 
the auditor(s) and the audit fi r m(s) shall perform in order to dra w his, her or its conclusions on the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting, including eng agement planning, r isk consideration and response to r isks and type of 
conclusions to be included in the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting, or , where relevant, in the audit repor t.
The Commission shall, no later than 1 October 2028 , adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 48a in order to 
supplement this Directive in order to provide f or reasonable assurance standards, f ollo wing an assessment to 
det er mine if reasonable assurance is f easible f or auditors and f or under takings. T aking into account the results of that 
assessment and if theref ore appropr iate, those delegat ed acts shall specify the date from whic h the opinion refer red to 
in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) is to be based on a reasonable assurance engag ement that is 
based on those reasonable assurance standards.
The Commission ma y adopt the assurance standards refe r red to in the fi rst and second subparagraphs only if the y:
(a) hav e been developed with proper due process, public o versight and transparency ;
(b) contr ibut e a high level of credibility and quality to the annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting; and
(c) are conducive to the Union public good.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/69  

--- PAGE 56 ---
(16) the f ollo wing Ar ticle is inser ted :
‘ Ar ticle 27a
Assurance of consolidated sust ainability repor ting
1. Member States shall ensure that in the case of assurance engag ements concer ning the consolidate d sustainability 
repor ting of a group of under takings:
(a) in relation to the consolidated sustainability repor ting, the group auditor bears the full responsibility f or the 
assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting refer red to in Ar ticle 28a;
(b) the group auditor evaluates the assurance w ork performe d by an y independent assurance ser vices provider(s), 
third-countr y auditor (s), statutor y auditor(s), third-countr y audit entity(ies) or audit fi r m(s) f or the pur pose of the 
assurance of consolidate d sustainability repor ting and documents the nature, timing and exte nt of the w ork 
performe d by those auditors, including, where applicable, the group auditor ’s review of relevant par ts of those 
auditors’ assurance documentation; and
(c) the group auditor reviews the assurance w ork perf or med by independent assurance ser vices provider(s), third- 
countr y auditor(s), statut or y auditor (s), third-countr y audit entity(ies) or audit fir m(s) f or the pur pose of the 
assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting and documents it.
The documentation retained by the group auditor shall be such as to enable the relevant compet ent author ity to 
review the work of the group auditor .
For the pur poses of point (c) of the f irst subparagraph of this paragraph, the group auditor shall request the 
agreement of the independent assurance ser vices provid er(s), third-countr y auditor (s), statutor y auditor(s), third- 
countr y audit entity(ies) or audit fir m(s) concer ned to the transfer of relevant documentation dur ing the conduct of 
the assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting, as a condition of the reliance by the group auditor on the 
w ork of those independent assurance ser vices provid er(s), third-countr y auditor(s), statutor y auditor(s), third-countr y 
audit entity(ies) or audit fi r m(s).
2. Where the group auditor is unable to comply with point (c) of the fi rst subparagraph of paragraph 1, he, she or 
it shall take appropr iat e measures and inf or m the relevant compet ent author ity .
Such measures shall, where appropr iate, include car r ying out additional assurance w ork, either directly or by 
outsourcing such tasks, in the relevant subsidiar y .
3. Where the group auditor is subject to a quality assurance review or an inve stigation concer ning the assurance of 
consolidate d sustainability repor ting of a group of under takings, the group auditor shall, when request ed, make 
av ailable to the compet ent author ity the relevant documentation he, she or it retains concer ning the assurance w ork 
performed by the respective independent assurance ser vices provi der(s), third-countr y auditor(s), statut or y auditor(s), 
third-countr y audit entity(ies) or audit fir m(s) f or the pur pose of the assurance of consolidat ed sustainability 
repor ting, including an y working papers relevant to the assurance of consolidat ed sustainability repor ting.
The compet ent author ity ma y request additional documentation on the assurance w ork performe d by any statut or y 
auditor(s) or audit fi r m(s) f or the pur pose of the assurance of consolidate d sustainability repor ting from the relevant 
compet ent author ities pursuant to Ar ticle 36.
Where the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a parent under taking or a subsidiar y under taking of a group of 
under takings is car r ied out by any auditor(s) or audit entity(ies) from a third countr y , the compet ent author ity ma y 
request additional documentation on the assurance w ork performe d by an y third-countr y auditor(s) or third-countr y 
audit entity(ies) from the relevant compet ent author ities from third countr ies through working ar rangements.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/70 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 57 ---
By wa y of derog ation from the third subparagraph, where an y independent assurance ser vices provider(s), third- 
countr y auditor(s) or audit entity(ies) that hav e no w orking ar rangements car r ied out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting of a parent under taking or a subsidiar y under taking of a group of under takings, the group auditor shall, 
when requested, also be responsible f or ensur ing proper deliver y of the additional documentation on the assurance 
w ork performed by such independent assurance ser vices provid er(s), third-countr y auditor(s) or audit entity(ies), 
including the w orking papers relevant to the assurance of consolidat ed sustainability repor ting. In order to ensure 
such deliver y , the group auditor shall retain a cop y of such documentation, or alternatively agree with the 
independent assurance ser vices provid er(s), third-countr y auditor(s) or audit entity(ies) that he, she or it is to be given 
unrestr ict ed access to such documentation upon request, or take any other appropr iate action. Where assurance 
w orking papers cannot, f or legal or other reasons, be passed from a third countr y to the group auditor , the 
documentation retained by the group auditor shall include evidence that he, she or it has under tak en the appropr iat e 
procedures in order to gain access to the assurance documentation, and in the case of impediments other than leg al 
ones ar ising from the legislation of the third countr y concer ned, evidence suppor ting the existen ce of such 
im pediments.’;
(17) in Ar ticle 28(2), point (e) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(e) include an opinion and a stat ement, both of which shall be based on the w ork under taken in the course of the 
audit, pursuant to points (a) and (b) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU;’;
(18) the f ollo wing Ar ticle is inser ted :
‘ Ar ticle 28a
Assurance repor t on sust ainability repor ting
1. The statutor y auditor(s) or the audit fi r m(s) shall present the results of the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
in an assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting. That repor t shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of assurance standards adopt ed by the Commission by means of the delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 26a(3), 
or , pending adop tion by the Commission of those assurance standards, in accordance with national assurance 
standards, as refer red to in Ar ticle 26a(2).
2. The assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting shall be in wr iting and shall:
(a) identify the entity whose annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting is the subject of the assurance 
engag ement ; specify the annual or consolidat ed sustainability repor ting and the dat e and per iod it covers; and 
identify the sustainability repor ting framewor k that has been applied in its preparation;
(b) include a descr ipt ion of the scope of the assurance of sustainability repor ting whic h shall, as a minimum, identify 
the assurance standards in accordance with whic h the assurance of sustainability repor ting was conducted;
(c) include the opinion ref er red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU.
3. Where the assurance of sustainability repor ting was car r ied out by more than one statutor y auditor or audit 
fir m, the statut or y auditor (s) or the audit fir m(s) shall agree on the results of the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
and submit a joint repor t and opinion. In the case of disagreement, each statutor y auditor or audit fir m shall submit 
his, her or its opinion in a separate paragraph of the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting and shall state the 
reason f or the disagreement.
4. The assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting shall be signed and date d by the statut or y auditor car r ying out 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Where an audit fi r m car r ies out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting shall bear the signature of at least the statutor y auditor(s) car r ying out the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting on behalf of the audit fir m. Where more than one statutor y auditor or audit fir m 
hav e been simultaneously engag ed, the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting shall be signed by all statut or y 
auditors or at least by the statut or y auditors car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting on behalf of ever y 
audit fir m. In excep tional circumstances, Member States ma y pro vide that such signature(s) need not be disclosed to 
the public if such disclosure could lead to an imminent and significant threat to the personal secur ity of any person.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/71  

--- PAGE 58 ---
In any event, the name(s) of the person(s) inv olved shall be known to the relevant compet ent author ities.
5. Member State s ma y require that, where the same statutor y auditor car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual 
financia l statements and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting 
ma y be included as a separate section of the audit repor t.
6. The repor t of the statut or y auditor or the audit fi r m on the consolidated sustainability repor ting shall compl y 
with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 5.’;
(19) Ar ticle 29 is amended as f ollows :
(a) in paragraph 1, point (d) is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘(d) the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews shall hav e appropr iat e professional education and 
relevant exper ience in statutor y audit and fi nancial repor ting and, where applicable, in sustainability 
repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-related ser vices, 
combined with specifi c training on quality assurance reviews;’;
(b) in paragraph 1, point (f) is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘(f) the scope of the quality assurance review , suppor ted by adequate tes ting of selected audit files and, where 
applicable, assurance files, shall include an assessment of compl iance with applicable auditing standards and 
independence requirements and, where applicable, with assurance standards, and an assessment of the 
quantity and quality of resources spent, of the audit fe es and f ees charg ed f or the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, and of the intern al quality control system of the audit fir m;’;
(c) in paragraph 1, point (h) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(h) quality assurance reviews shall take place on the basis of an analysis of the r isk and, in the case of statut or y 
auditors and audit fir ms car r ying out statut or y audits as defined in point (a) of point 1 of Ar ticle 2 and, 
where applicable, car r ying out assurance of sustainability repor ting, at least ever y six years;’;
(d) in paragraph 2, point (a) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(a) reviewers shall hav e appropr iate professional education and relevant exper ience in statut or y audit and 
fi nancial repor ting and, where applicable, in sustainability repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting or in other sustainability-related ser vices, combined with specific training on quality assurance 
reviews;’;
(e) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘2a. Member States ma y exem pt, until 31 December 2025 , persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews 
relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting from the requirement to hav e relevant exper ience in 
sustainability repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-related ser vices.’;
(20) in Ar ticle 30, paragraphs 1 and 2 are replaced by the f ollowing:
‘1. Member Stat es shall ensure that there are eff ective systems of inv estigations and sanctions to det ect, cor rect and 
prevent inadequate execution of the statutor y audit and the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
2. Without prejudice to their civil liability regimes, Member Stat es shall provide f or effective, propor tionate and 
dissuasive sanctions in respect of statutor y auditors and audit fir ms, where statutor y audits or assurance of 
sustainability repor ting are not car r ied out in conf or mity with the provis ions adopt ed in the imp lementation of this 
Directive, and, where applicable, with Regulation (EU) No 537/2014.
Member States ma y decide not to la y do wn r ules f or administrative sanctions f or infr ingements which are already 
subject to national cr iminal law . In that event, the y shall communicate to the Commission the relevant cr iminal la w 
provis ions.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/72 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 59 ---
(21) in Ar ticle 30a(1), the f ollowi ng point is inser ted:
‘(ca) a tem porar y prohibition, of up to three yea rs ’ duration, banning the statut or y auditor , the audit fi r m or the ke y 
sustainability par tner from car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting and/or signing assurance 
repor ts on sustainability repor ting;’;
(22) in Ar ticle 30a(1), the f ollowi ng point is inser ted:
‘(da) a declaration that the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting does not meet the requirements of Ar ticle 28a 
of this Directive;’;
(23) Ar ticle 32 is amended as f ollows :
(a) in paragraph 3, the fi rst subparagraph is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘3. The compet ent author ity shall be go ver ned by non-practitioners who are knowledg eable in the areas 
relevant to statutor y audit and, where applicable, to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. They shall be 
selected in accordance with an independent and transparent nomination procedure.’;
(b) in paragraph 4, point (b) is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘(b) the adoption of standards on professional ethics, internal quality control of audit fi r ms, auditing and the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting, exce pt where those standards are adopt ed or approved by other 
Member State author ities;’;
(24) the f ollo wing Ar ticle is inser ted :
‘ Ar ticle 36a
Regulatory ar rangements betw een Member Sta tes as regards the assurance of sust ainability repor ting
The requirements of Ar ticles 34 and 36 as regards the statut or y audit of financial state ments shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(25) Ar ticle 37 is amended as f ollows :
(a) in paragraph 1, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The fi rst subparagraph shall apply to the appointment of the statutor y auditor or audit fi r m f or the pur pose of 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(b) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The fi rst subparagraph shall apply to the appointment of the statutor y auditor or audit fi r m f or the pur pose of 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(c) paragraph 3 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘3. Any contractual clause restr icting the c hoice by the g eneral meeting of shareholders or members of the 
audited entity pursuant to paragraph 1 to cer tain cate gor ies or lists of statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms as regar ds 
the appointment of a par ticular statutor y auditor or audit fir m to car r y out the statut or y audit and, where 
applicable, the assurance of sustainability repor ting of that entity shall be prohibited. Any such existing clauses 
shall be null and v oid.
Member States shall ensure that shareholders or members of larg e under takings subject to Ar ticles 19a and 29a 
of Directive 2013/34/EU, excep t under takings ref er red to in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive, 
and whic h represent more than 5 % of the voting r ights or 5 % of the capital of the under taking, acting 
individually or collectively , hav e the r ight to table a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the general meeting of 
shareholders or members, requir ing that an accredited third par ty that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or 
netw ork as the statut or y auditor or audit fi r m car r ying out the statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain 
elements of the sustainability repor ting and that such repor t be made av ailable to the g eneral meeting of 
shareholders or members.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/73  

--- PAGE 60 ---
(26) Ar ticle 38 is amended as f ollows :
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. Member Stat es shall ensure that statut or y auditors or audit fir ms ma y be dismissed only where there are 
proper grounds. Diverg ence of opinions on accounting treatments, audit procedures or , where applicable, on 
sustainability repor ting or assurance procedures shall not be proper grounds f or dismissal.’;
(b) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The obligation to inf or m provid ed f or in the first subparagraph shall also apply to the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting.’;
(c) in paragraph 3, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The first subparagraph shall also apply to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(27) Ar ticle 39 is amended as f ollows :
(a) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘4a. Member States ma y allow the functions assigned to the audit committe e relating to sustainability 
repor ting and relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting to be performed by the administrative or 
super visor y body as a whole or by a dedicat ed body established by the administrative or super visor y body .’;
(b) in paragraph 6, points (a) to (e) are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘(a) inf or m the administrative or super visor y body of the audited entity of the outcome of the statutor y audit and, 
where applicable, of the outcome of the assurance of sustainability repor ting and explain how the statut or y 
audit and the assurance of sustainability repor ting contr ibuted to the integrit y of fi nancial repor ting and 
sustainability repor ting respectively , and what the role of the audit committee was in that process;
(b) monitor the financial and, where applicable, sustainability repor ting process, including the electronic 
repor ting process as refe r red to in Ar ticle 29d of Directive 2013/34/EU and the process car r ied out by the 
under taking to identify the inf or mation repor te d in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards 
adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 29b of that Directive, and submit recommendations or proposals to ensure their 
integrit y ;
(c) monitor the effectiveness of the under taking’s internal quality control and r isk management systems and, 
where applicable, its intern al audit, regar ding the fi nancial repor ting and, where applicable, sustainability 
repor ting of the under taking, including its electronic repor ting process as refe r red to in Ar ticle 29d of 
Directive 2013/34/EU, without breac hing its independence;
(d) monitor the statut or y audit of the annual and consolidated fi nancial stat ements and, where applicable, the 
assurance of the annual and consolidated sustainability repor ting, in par ticular its performa nce, taking into 
account an y findings and conclusions by the compet ent author ity pursuant to Ar ticle 26(6) of Regulation 
(EU) No 537/2014;
(e) review and monitor the independence of the statut or y auditors or the audit fi r ms in accordance with Ar ticles 
22, 22a, 22b, 24a, 24b, 25b, 25c and 25d of this Directive and with Ar ticle 6 of Regulation (EU) 
No 537/2014, and in par ticular the appropr iat eness of the provision of non-audit ser vices to the audited 
entity in accordance with Ar ticle 5 of that Regulation;’;
(28) Ar ticle 45 is amended as f ollows :
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. The compet ent author ities of a Member Stat e shall, in accordance with Ar ticles 15, 16 and 17 of this 
Directive, register ever y third-countr y auditor and audit entity , where that third-countr y auditor or audit entity 
provides an audit repor t concer ning the annual or consolidat ed fi nancial stat ements, or , where applicable, an 
assurance repor t concer ning the annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting of an under taking incor porat ed 
outside the U nion whose transferable secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulate d market of that Member 
State, defined in point (21) of Ar ticle 4(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (*), excep t where the under taking in question is an issuer excl usively of outstanding debt secur ities f or 
which one of the f ollowing applies:
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/74 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 61 ---
(a) such secur ities ha ve been admitted to trading on a regulat ed market in a Member Stat e, defined in point (21) 
of Ar ticle 4(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU pr ior to 31 December 2010 and the denomination per unit of whic h 
is, at the dat e of issue, at least EUR 50 000 or , in the case of debt secur ities denominated in another cur rency , 
equivalent, at the date of issue, to at least EUR 50 000 ;
(b) such secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in a Member State , def ined in point (21) of 
Ar ticle 4(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU from 31 December 2010 and the denomination per unit of which is, at 
the date of issue, at least EUR 100 000 or , in case of debt secur ities denominat ed in another cur rency , 
equivalent, at the date of issue, to at least EUR 100 000 .
_____________
(*) Directive 2014/65/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 15 Ma y 2014 on markets in fi nancial 
instr uments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349).’;
(b) paragraphs 4 to 6 are replaced by the f ollowing:
‘4. Without prejudice to Ar ticle 46, audit repor ts concer ning annual accounts or consolidated accounts or , 
where applicable, the assurance repor ts concer ning annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting refer red to in 
paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle issued by third-countr y auditor s or audit entities that are not register ed in the 
Member Stat e shall hav e no leg al eff ect in that Member Stat e.
5. A Member Stat e ma y register a third-countr y audit entity f or the pur pose of the audit of fi nancial state ments 
only if:
(a) the major ity of the members of the administrative or manage ment body of the third-countr y audit entity 
meet requirements whic h are equivalent to those laid down in Ar ticles 4 to 10, with the excep tion of Ar ticle 
7(2), Ar ticle 8(3) and the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 10(1);
(b) the third-countr y auditor car r ying out the audit on behalf of the third-countr y audit entity meets 
requirements which are equivalent to those laid down in Ar ticles 4 to 10, with the excep tion of Ar ticle 7(2), 
Ar ticle 8(3) and the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 10(1);
(c) the audits of the annual or consolidated financia l state ments refer red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle are 
car r ied out in accordance with inte r national auditing standards as refer red to in Ar ticle 26, as well as the 
requirements laid down in Ar ticles 22, 22b and 25, or with equivalent standards and requirements;
(d) the third-countr y audit entity publishes on its website an annual transparency repor t whic h includes the 
inf or mation refer red to in Ar ticle 13 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or it complies with equivalent 
disclosure requirements.
A Member State ma y register a third-countr y audit entity f or the pur pose of the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting only if:
(a) the major ity of the members of the administrative or manage ment body of the third-countr y audit entity 
meet requirements which are equivalent to those laid down in Ar ticles 4 to 10;
(b) the third-countr y auditor car r ying out the assurance on behalf of the third-countr y audit entity meets 
requirements which are equivalent to those laid down in Ar ticles 4 to 10;
(c) the assurance of the annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting refe r red to in paragraph 1 is car r ied out 
in accordance with the assurance standards refer red to in Ar ticle 26a, as well as the requirements laid down 
in Ar ticles 22, 22b, 25 and 25b, or with equivalent standards and requirements;
(d) the third-countr y audit entity publishes on its website an annual transparency repor t whic h includes the 
inf or mation refer red to in Ar ticle 13 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or it complies with equivalent 
disclosure requirements.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/75  

--- PAGE 62 ---
5a. A Member State ma y register a third-countr y auditor f or the pur pose of the audit of financial stat ements 
only if he or she meets the requirements set out in points (b), (c) and (d) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 
of this Ar ticle.
A Member Stat e ma y registe r a third-countr y auditor f or the pur pose of the assurance f or sustainability repor ting 
only if he or she meets the requirements set out in points (b), (c) and (d) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 
5 of this Ar ticle.
6. In order to ensure unif or m conditions f or the application of point (c) of the fi rst subparagraph of paragraph 
5 and point (c) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 of this Ar ticle, the Commission shall be emp owered to 
decide upon the equivalence refer red to therein by means of im plementing acts. Those implementing acts shall be 
adopt ed in accordance with the examination procedure refe r red to in Ar ticle 48(2).
Member Stat es ma y assess the equivalence refe r red to point (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 and point 
(c) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 of this Ar ticle, as long as the Commission has not taken any such 
decision.
The Commission shall be em powered to adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 48a supplementing this 
Directive f or the pur pose of establishing the general equivalence cr it er ia to be used in assessing whether the audits 
of the fi nancial state ments and, where applicable, the assurance of sustainability repor ting refer red to in 
paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle are car r ied out in accordance with internati onal auditing standards as def ined in 
Ar ticle 26 and with assurance standards f or sustainability repor ting refe r red to in Ar ticle 26a, respectively , and 
with the requirements laid down in Ar ticles 22, 24 and 25. Such cr iter ia, which are applicable to all third 
countr ies, shall be used by Member States when assessing equivalence at national level.’;
(29) Ar ticle 48a is amended as f ollo ws:
(a) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The power to adopt delega ted acts refer red to in Ar ticle 26a(2) shall be confe r red on the Commission f or an 
indetermi nat e per iod of time.’;
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘3. The delegatio n of power refer red to in Ar ticle 26(3), Ar ticle 26a(3), Ar ticle 45(6), Ar ticle 46(2) and Ar ticle 
47(3) ma y be revok ed at an y time by the European P arliament or by the Council. A decision to revok e shall put an 
end to the delegatio n of the po wer specified in that decision. It shall take effect the da y f ollo wing the publication 
of the decision in the Off icial Jour nal of the Eur opean Union or at a later date specifi ed therein. It shall not affect the 
validity of an y delegat ed acts already in f orce.’;
(c) paragraph 5 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘5. A delegat ed act adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 26(3), Ar ticle 26a(3), Ar ticle 45(6), Ar ticle 46(2) or Ar ticle 
47(3) shall ent er into f orce only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the 
Council within a per iod of f our months of notifi cation of that act to the European P arliament and the Council or 
if, bef ore the expir y of that per iod, the European P arliament and the Council hav e both inf or med the Commission 
that the y will not object. That per iod shall be ext ended by two months at the initiative of the European P arliament 
or of the Council.’.
Ar ticle 4
Amendments t o Regulation (EU) No 537/2014
Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 is amended as f ollows:
(1) in Ar ticle 4(2), the second subparagraph is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘For the pur poses of the limits specified in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, and non-audit ser vices other than those refer red to in Ar ticle 5(1), required by Union or national legislation, 
shall be excluded.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/76 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 63 ---
(2) Ar ticle 5 is amended as f ollows:
(a) in paragraph 1, second subparagraph, point (c) is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘(c) bookkee ping and prepar ing accounting records and fi nancial state ments as well as prepar ing sustainability 
repor ting;’;
(b) in paragraph 4, the f ollo wing subparagraph is inser ted af ter the fi rst subparagraph:
‘ The appro val of the audit committee ref er red to in the first subparagraph shall not be needed f or the provision of 
assurance of sustainability repor ting.’.
Ar ticle 5
T ransposition
1. Member State s shall br ing into f orce the la ws, regulations and administrative provisions necessar y to compl y with 
Ar ticles 1 to 3 of this Directive by 6 July 2024 . They shall immediate ly communicat e the te xt of those measures to the 
Commission.
2. Member States shall apply the measures necessar y to compl y with Ar ticle 1, with the excep tion of point (14):
(a) f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2024 :
(i) to larg e under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU whic h are public-inte rest entities 
as defined in point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive exceeding on their balance sheet dat es the averag e number of 
500 emplo y ees dur ing the financia l year;
(ii) to public-interest entities as def ined in point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of Directive 2013/34/EU which are parent 
under takings of a larg e group within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(7) of that Directive exceed ing on its balance sheet 
dat es, on a consolidate d basis, the av erage number of 500 emplo y ees dur ing the financia l year;
(b) f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2025 :
(i) to large under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU, other than those refe r red to in 
point (a)(i) of this subparagraph;
(ii) to parent under takings of a larg e group within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(7) of Directive 2013/34/EU, other than 
those ref er red to in point (a)(ii) of this subparagraph;
(c) f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2026 :
(i) to small and medium-sized under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(2) and (3) of Directive 2013/34/EU 
which are public-inte rest entities as def ined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive and which are 
not micro-under takings as defined in Ar ticle 3(1) of that Directive;
(ii) to small and non-com plex institutions defined in point (145) of Ar ticle 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, 
provided they are larg e under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU or that the y are 
small and medium sized under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(2) and (3) of that Directive which are 
public-interest entities as defined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive and whic h are not micro- 
under takings as defined in Ar ticle 3(1) of that Directive;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/77  

--- PAGE 64 ---
(iii) to capti ve insurance under takings def ined in point (2) of Ar ticle 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (
39
) , and capti ve reinsurance under takings def ined in point (5) of Ar ticle 13 of that 
Directive, provid ed that the y are larg e under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU 
or that the y are small and medium sized under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(2) and (3) of that Directive 
which are public-interest entities as def ined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive and which are not 
micro-under takings as defined in Ar ticle 3(1) of that Directive.
Member States shall apply the measures necessar y to compl y with point (14) of Ar ticle 1 f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or 
af ter 1 Januar y 2028 .
Member States shall apply the measures necessar y to compl y with Ar ticle 2:
(a) f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2024 :
(i) to issuers as def ined in point (d) of Ar ticle 2(1) of Directive 2004/109/EC which are larg e under takings within the 
meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU exceed ing on their balance sheet dates the ave rage number of 500 
em plo ye es dur ing the fi nancial ye ar ;
(ii) to issuers as defined in point (d) of Ar ticle 2(1) of Directive 2004/109/EC which are parent under takings of a larg e 
group within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(7) of Directive 2013/34/EU exceed ing on its balance sheet dates, on a 
consolidat ed basis, the av erage number of 500 emplo yees dur ing the financial ye ar ;
(b) f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2025 :
(i) to issuers as def ined in point (d) of Ar ticle 2(1) of Directive 2004/109/EC which are larg e under takings within the 
meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU other than those refer red to in point (a) (i) of this subparagraph;
(ii) to issuers as defined in point (d) of Ar ticle 2(1) of Directive 2004/109/EC which are parent under takings of a larg e 
group within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(7) of Directive 2013/34/EU other than those refer red to in point (a) (ii) of 
this subparagraph;
(c) f or fi nancial y ears star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2026 :
(i) to issuers as defined in point (d) of Ar ticle 2(1) of Directive 2004/109/EC whic h are small and medium-sized 
under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(2) and (3) of Directive 2013/34/EU and which are not micro- 
under takings as defined in Ar ticle 3(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU;
(ii) to issuers defined as small and non-com plex institutions in point (145) of Ar ticle 4(1) of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013, provided the y are larg e under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU 
or that the y are small and medium-sized under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(2) and (3) of that Directive 
which are public-interest entities as def ined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive and which are not 
micro-under takings as defined in Ar ticle 3(1) of that Directive;
(iii) to issuers defined as captive insurance under takings in point (2) of Ar ticle 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC, or as 
captive reinsurance under takings in point (5) of Ar ticle 13 of that Directive, provided that the y are large 
under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3 (4) of Directive 2013/34/EU or that they are small and medium- 
sized under takings within the meaning of Ar ticle 3(2) and (3) of that Directive whic h are public-int erest entities as 
def ined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 of that Directive and whic h are not micro-under takings as defined in 
Ar ticle 3(1) of that Directive.
(
39
) Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the taking-up and pursuit of the 
business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) (OJ L 335, 17.12.2009, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/78 16.12.2022  

--- PAGE 65 ---
Member Stat es shall apply the measures necessar y to compl y with Ar ticle 3 f or fi nancial ye ars star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 
2024 .
3. When Member States adopt the measures ref er red to in paragraph 1, they shall contain a ref erence to this Directive or 
shall be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their off icial publication. Member Stat es shall det er mine how 
such ref erence is to be made.
4. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national la w whic h the y 
adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Ar ticle 6
Review and repor ting
1. The Commission shall submit a repor t to the European P arliament and to the Council on the im plementation of this 
amending Directive, including, inter alia:
(a) an assessment of the achi evement of the goals of this amending Directive, including the con vergence of repor ting 
practices between Member Stat es;
(b) an assessment of the number of small and medium-sized under takings v oluntar ily using the sustainability repor ting 
standards ref er red to in Ar ticle 29c of Directive 2013/34/EU;
(c) an assessment of whether and how the scope of the provisions amended by this amending Directive should be fur ther 
extended, in par ticular in relation to small and medium-sized under takings and to third-countr y under takings 
operating directly on the U nion internal mark et without a subsidiar y or a branch on the terr itory of the U nion;
(d) an assessment of the implementation of the repor ting requirements on subsidiar ies and branche s of third-countr y 
under takings introduced by this amending Directive, including an assessment of the number of third-countr y 
under takings whic h hav e a subsidiar y under taking or a branch repor ting in accordance with Ar ticle 40a of Directive 
2013/34/EU; an assessment of the enf orcement mech anism and of the thresholds set out in that Ar ticle;
(e) an assessment of whether and how to ensure the accessibility f or persons with disabilities to the sustainability repor ts 
published by under takings f alling under the scope of this amending Directive.
The repor t shall be published by 30 Apr il 2029 and ever y three y ears thereaf ter , and shall be accompan ied, if appropr iat e, 
by legislative proposals.
2. By 31 December 2028 , the Commission shall review and repor t on the level of concentration of the sustainability 
assurance mark et. That review shall take into account the national regimes applicable to independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers and assess whether and to what extent those national regimes contr ibut e to opening up the assurance mark et.
By 31 December 2028 , the Commission shall assess possible legal measures to ensure sufficient diversif ication of the 
sustainability assurance mark et and appropr iate sustainability repor ting quality . The Commission shall review the 
measures provid ed f or in Ar ticle 34 of Directive 2013/34/EU and assess the need to extend them to other larg e 
under takings.
The repor t shall be transmitted to the European P arliament and the Council by 31 December 2028 and shall be 
accompan ied, if appropr iat e, by legislative proposals.
Ar ticle 7
Entr y int o f orce and application
This Directive shall ent er into f orce on the twentieth da y f ollowing that of its publication in the Off icial Jour nal of the 
Eur opean Union.
Ar ticle 4 of this Directive shall apply from 1 Januar y 2024 f or financial ye ars star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2024 .
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/79  

--- PAGE 66 ---
Ar ticle 8
Addre ssees
This Directive is addressed to the Member Stat es.
Ar ticle 4 shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member Stat es.
Done at Strasbourg, 14 December 2022 .
For the Europ ean P arliament
The Pr esident
R. METSOL A
For the Council
The Pr esident
M. BEK
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/80 16.12.2022  