--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-101-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-101
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 3524 - 3773
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 4]
3. Research methodology
3.1. Sample
Supply chain ﬁnancing in Micro and Small Medium Enterprises
(MSMEs) is increasing day by day in India. The participants for the
current study were selected from various MSMEs (especially Micro
and Small Organizations) located in four states in India, namely
Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Samba, and Bari-Brahmana in Jammu
and Kashmir; Bathinda and Gurdaspur in Punjab; and Surat in
Gujarat. The respondents included people from MSMEs, including
owners, Executives in the supply chain, and Managers in the supply
chain of an MSME. The locations were selected because they are
industrial hubs in the state and based on the authors' locational
convenience.
.The selection of MSMEs was based on the fact that they are
more prone to risks and crisis-like situations. The Covid-19
pandemic has had a signi ﬁcant impact on MSMEs in India, and
given the fact that more than 99 percent of Indian businesses are
from Micro organizations, it makes a signi ﬁcant impact on the In-
dian Economy ( Sahoo & Ashwani, 2020 ). Indian MSMEs play a
crucial role in overall economic development as more than 35
percent of contribution to overall GDP comes from them ( Aneja &
Ahuja, 2020 ).
According to the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Devel-
opment (MSMED) Act, 2006, Indian organizations falls into three
categories i.e., micro, small, and medium. Every country has a
different criterion while classifying MSMEs and de ﬁning them as
some de ﬁne them based on the number of employees engaged,
annual sales and turnover, or investment. In India, as per the
MSMED Act, 2006, MSMEs are de ﬁned based on investment by
enterprises in plant and machinery. Enterprises in Manufacturing
and Services having investments up to INR 1 crores fall under the
category of Micro Enterprises, Enterprises having investments
more than one crore but less than ten crores fall under the category
of Small Enterprises, and Enterprises having investments more
than ten crores and less than twenty crores fall under the category
of medium enterprises. To collect the data, investment and the
number of employees in MSMEs were considered essential criteria.
Enterprises having less than 200 employees were approached for
data collection purposes.
The participants were approached from January 2020 to October
2020. Initially, until March 2020, the participants were contacted by
phone, and after taking approval to participate in the study, they were
approached, and questionnaires in pen and paper form were ﬁlled
out. Owing to the lockdown restrictions, the data collection after
March 2020 was done digitally, and a google form similar to a pen and
paper questionnaire was created and was ﬂoated to the participants
after taking their due approval over the telephone. The participants
were briefed about the purpose of the study, and those participants
who were not comfortable with English were connected through
Zoom or WhatsApp video call, and the questions were translated to
them into Hindi, and their responses were recorded accordingly.
Furthermore, to ensure the reliability of the questions in the
questionnaire, the questionnaire was checked by three area experts
(two professors from Management Institutes and one Industry
person). The data collection process took ten months to complete
because of the Covid-19 crisis, and 274 ﬁlled responses were
received.
3.2. Measures
The measurement scales for the present study were taken from
various available literature published in the area to ensure the
validity and reliability of the instrument used. The scale for the
dependent variable Supply Chain Effectiveness (SCE) was adapted
from Fugate et al. (2009) , and the items were modi ﬁed as per the
objective of the current study; the scale for supply chain ﬁnance
(SCF) was adapted from Ali et al. (2019) with ﬁve items; the scale
for digitizing technologies (DT) was adopted from Choi (2013) using
three-item scale; the scale for collaboration was taken from
Simatupang and Sridharan (2005) using a four-item scale; the scale
for Financial institutions was adapted from Zhang (2015) with a
three-item scale; the negotiation scale was adapted using three
items from Janda and Seshadri (2001) ; and the scale for External
Environment was adapted using a three-item scale from Zhang
(2015).
4. Data analysis and results
The data analysis for the study was done using SPSS version 24
and SMART PLS version 3.3.2, the method of “partial least squares
Fig. 1. Proposed conceptual model for the study.
K. Mulchandani, S.S. Jasrotia and K. Mulchandani Asia Paci ﬁc Management Review 28 (2023) 90 e98
93