--- PAGE 1 ---
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 1 of 4 
 
 
 
DHL Group is the world’s leading logistics company. The Group connects people and markets and is an enabler of global trade. It 
aspires to be the first choice for customers, employees and investors worldwide. DHL Group is home to two strong brands: DHL 
offers a comprehensive range of parcel and international express service, freight transport, and supply chain management services, 
as well as e-commerce logistics solutions. Deutsche Post is Europe’s leading postal and parcel service provider. The Group 
contributes to the world by taking action to minimize its environmental footprint, to provide a safe, inclusive and engaging working 
environment, to support the communities it operates in, and to follow trusted, transparent and compliant business practices. 
We are fully aware of our responsibilities because of our activities thus, we have given ourselves a strict set of ethical standards to 
guide us in our business practices.  
We expect all of our suppliers, including subcontractors, i.e. all companies who do business with any company or division of DHL 
Group, to adhere to the same ethical standards. For this purpose, DHL Group has produced this Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), 
which sets the minimum standards for doing business with any Group company or Business Unit. 
LAWS AND ETHICAL STANDARDS 
The supplier shall comply with all laws applicable to its business. The supplier shall support the principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as well as the 1998 International Labor Organization 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, in accordance with national laws and practice. This especially 
applies to: 
HUMAN RIGHTS AND FAIR LABOR PRACTICES 
CHILD LABOR  
The supplier shall not employ children under the legal age of employment in any country or local jurisdiction. 
The supplier shall apply a minimum working age of 15 years, even where local legislation permits younger 
children to be employed. Workers under the age of 18 shall only perform work in accordance with legal 
requirements of their country of employment (e.g. with regards to working time and working conditions) and 
subject to any requirement regarding education or training. 
FORCED LABOR  
The supplier shall not use any form of forced, bonded, compulsory labor or modern forms of slavery. All labor must 
be voluntary. Workers must be allowed to maintain control over their identification documents (e.g. passports, work 
permits or any other personal legal documents). The supplier shall ensure that workers do not pay fees or make any 
payment connected to obtaining employment throughout the hiring process and the employment period. The 
supplier shall be responsible for payment of all fees and expenses (e.g. licenses and levies) relating to workers, where 
legally required. 
Punishment, mental and/or physical coercion as well as any other form of human trafficking are prohibited. 
Disciplinary policies and procedures shall be clearly defined and communicated to the workers. 
 
DHL GROUP SUPPLIER 
CODE OF CONDUCT 


--- PAGE 2 ---
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 2 of 4 
 
COMPENSATION AND WORKING HOURS  
The supplier shall comply with all applicable local laws and mandatory industry standards regarding working 
hours, including overtime, rest breaks and paid vacation. 
The supplier shall compensate its workers in accordance with local minimum wage legislation and terms of 
applicable collective bargaining agreements as well as with industry standards. The supplier shall pay workers 
in a timely manner and clearly convey the basis on which workers are being paid (i.e. receive employment 
documents in a language they understand). Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be 
allowed, if not legally permitted. 
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
The employees of the supplier must be free to join or not to join a union/employee representation of their 
choice, free from threat or intimidation. The supplier recognizes and respects the right to collective bargaining 
in accordance with applicable local laws. 
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
The supplier shall promote an inclusive work environment that values the diversity of its employees. 
The supplier shall be committed to equal opportunities and not discriminate or tolerate discrimination or 
harassment with respect to gender, ethnic and national origin, race, color, religion, age, disability, sexual 
orientation and identity, or any other characteristic protected by law. 
HEALTH & SAFETY  
We expect our suppliers to strive to implement the standards of occupational health and safety at a high level by 
applying a health and safety management approach appropriate for the business. 
The supplier shall comply with applicable occupational health and safety regulations and provide a work environment 
that is safe and conducive to good health e.g. drinking water, in order to preserve the safety and health of employees, 
safeguard third parties and prevent accidents, injuries and work-related illnesses. This includes regular workplace risk 
assessments and the implementation of adequate hazard control and precautionary measures, including the provision of 
appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Employees are to be adequately educated and trained in health and 
safety issues in a language they understand. 
DATA PROTECTION, INFORMATION SECURITY, AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION 
The supplier shall adhere to applicable data protection laws, including security of personal data, as well as to respective 
regulation, e.g. GDPR, in particular with regard to personal data of customers, consumers, employees and shareholders. 
The supplier shall comply with all said requirements when personal data is collected, recorded, hosted, processed, 
transmitted, used or erased. 
The information security requirements applicable to suppliers with regards to any data entrusted to their control during 
and after their engagement with DHL Group are based on international standards, such as the Code of Practice for 
Information Security Management. Suppliers should take account of the need to protect the confidentiality, integrity and 
availability of information. At all times the required level of information security and control to be ensured by suppliers 
must be commensurate with the sensitivity, value and criticality of the information being processed throughout the 
lifecycle of the information. 
The supplier shall safeguard and make only appropriate use of confidential information. The supplier shall comply with 
any contractual requirements on data protection and information security and shall not disclose any information that is 
not known to the general public. 
BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION 
The supplier shall comply with all applicable national and international anti-corruption laws and regulations. The 
supplier shall not (neither directly nor indirectly) offer, provide or accept anything of value to improperly influence an 
official act or to secure an improper advantage in order to obtain or retain business. This includes so-called facilitation 
payments or other benefits provided to public officials for routine non-discretionary actions. 


--- PAGE 3 ---
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 3 of 4 
 
TRADE REGULATION 
The supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, sanctions and customs laws and regulations, including 
Prohibitions & Restrictions ("Trade Laws"). The supplier in particular ensures that the supplier, its beneficial owner(s), all 
its agents and any other subcontractors used by the supplier are not listed on any applicable Denied Party sanctions lists. 
MONEY LAUNDERING & FINANCIAL RECORDS 
The supplier shall comply with applicable laws and regulations designed to combat money laundering activities. The 
supplier shall maintain financial records and reports according to applicable laws and regulations. 
FREE COMPETITION 
The supplier shall comply with applicable competition and anti-trust laws.  
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
A conflict of interest is any personal or financial interest, any business or personal activity or relationship, prior or current 
employment, or any obligation that may interfere with the ability to objectively perform job duties and responsibilities or 
impair independence and objectivity. Such conflict of interest situations include critical relationships such as a 
relationship by blood or marriage, partnership, participation or an investment in business partners or competitors. The 
supplier shall immediately disclose any actual or potential conflict of interest related to its activities with DHL Group. 
ENVIRONMENT  
The supplier shall comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards as well as implement an 
effective system to identify and eliminate potential hazards to the environment.  
We expect our suppliers to strive to support DHL Group’s environmental and climate protection commitments through 
the products and services they deliver, which should be done efficiently by taking the environmental impact into 
consideration. 
DHL Group also expects its suppliers to report relevant data on environmental and climate protection upon request. 
We expect our suppliers to take environmental and climate protection appropriately into account in their own 
operations, for example, by setting climate protection goals for themselves and achieving them. 
CONFLICT MINERALS 
The supplier shall comply with all applicable laws and resulting due diligence obligations with respect to the sourcing of 
minerals and materials from conflict affected regions and high-risk areas, which may contribute to human rights abuses, 
corruption, the financing of armed groups or similar negative effects. 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH 
DHL Group encourages suppliers to give back to their local communities and engage in initiatives and activities that 
reflect the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANNING  
The supplier shall be prepared for any disruptions of its business (e.g. natural disasters, terrorism, supply chain 
disruptions, communicable disease outbreaks – epidemics or pandemics, information security issues, cyber-attacks). 
This preparedness includes business continuity plans that protect both employees as well as the environment from the 
effects of possible serious disruptions that may arise within the domain of operations. 
BUSINESS PARTNER DIALOGUE 
The supplier shall implement equivalent standards e.g. ethical standards, to the ones laid out in this SCoC for their own 
suppliers, as part of fulfilling their contractual obligations. 


--- PAGE 4 ---
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 4 of 4 
 
RESPECT AND DUTY OF CARE 
All Suppliers are required to act and interact with respect and in good faith with employees of DHL Group.  
Suppliers are to exercise due care in the use of property and equipment entrusted to them, as if the property is their own. 
When using property or materials that carry a DHL Group trademark or brand, all suppliers shall exercise particular care 
as any of their actions or activities may be associated with DHL Group. Any unauthorized use of branded or trademarked 
materials or equipment is to be avoided. It is considered a misuse of DHL Group branded or trademarked materials and 
equipment if even an appearance of impropriety can be inferred. 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT  
DHL Group reserves the right to check compliance with the requirements of this SCoC, for example through self-
assessments and audits either by DHL Group or a third party. The supplier shall strive for continuous improvement, such 
as setting measurable targets on the environment, working conditions or diversity, and reporting on progress for 
sustainability. In case a breach is identified, the supplier shall create an incident report and present a corrective action 
plan. 
The terms and conditions set forth in this Supplier Code of Conduct reflect DHL Group’s values and commitment to its 
customers, the communities which we serve and the protection of the environment. Therefore, any breach of these 
terms and conditions must be cured. Without prejudice to any other contractual remedies DHL Group may be entitled to, 
any failure to cure such a breach immediately will cause DHL Group to consider ending the commercial relationship. 
REPORTING IRREGULARITIES 
In case you wish to report suspected breaches of law, or any violation of this SCoC, you can contact the Compliance 
Management of DHL Group via https://group.dhl.com/incident-reporting-system 
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 
The supplier shall feel encouraged to proactively approach DHL Group with innovative ideas which contribute to further 
social, economic or environmental improvement. DHL Group values the open exchange of new ideas and is willing to 
explore new opportunities jointly with suppliers. 
 
  
