--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C27
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 24
Word Range: 7870 - 8174
Word Count: 305
--------------------

[Page 24]
19
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 Financial discipline: The members of the SHGs are encouraged to open savings 
accounts in banks. This assures improved living conditions, increased spending 
on education, health, etc. 
Challenges of Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 Lack of knowledge  and proper orientation among SHG -members to take up suitable 
and profitable livelihood options. 
 Patriarchal mind set – primitive thinking and social obligations discourages women 
from participating in SHGs thus limiting their economic avenues. 
 Lack of rural banking facilities – There are about 1.2 lakh bank branches and over 6 
lakh villages. Moreover , many public sector banks and micro -finance institutions are 
unwilling to provide financial services  to the poor as the cost of servicing remains 
high. 
 Sustainability and the quality of operations of the SHGs have been a matter of 
considerable debate. 
 No Security – The SHGs work on mutual trust and confidence of the members. The 
deposits of the SHGs are not secured or safe. 
 Only a minority of the Self -Help Groups are able to raise themselves from a level of 
micro-finance to that of micro-entrepreneurship. 
Opportunities in Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 SHGs often appear to be instrumental in rural poverty alleviation. 
 Economic empowerment through  SHGs, provides women the confidence for 
participation in decision making affairs at the household -level as well as at 
the community-level. 
 Un-utilised and underutilised resources of the community can be mobilised effectively 
under different SHG-initiatives. 
 Leaders and members of successful SHGs bear the potentiality to act as resource 
persons for different community developmental initiatives. 
 Active involvement in different SHG -initiatives helps members to grow  leadership-
skills. Evidences also show that often women SHG leaders are chosen as potential