--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C48
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 35
Word Range: 13599 - 13848
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 35]
30
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 
 
 
1. Support t o F POs/ SHG s/ Producer Cooperatives : The scheme would support 
clusters and groups such as FPOs/SHGs/ producer cooperatives along their entire value 
chain for sorting, grading, assaying, storage, common processing, packaging,  
marketing, processing of agri-produce, and testing laboratories. 
a. FPOs and Producer Cooperatives would be provided the following support  
 Grant @35% with credit linkage  
 Training support  
 The maximum limit of grant in such cases would be as prescribed.  
b.  SHGs would be provided with the following support:  
 Seed capital:  Seed capital @ Rs40,000/ - per member of SHG for working 
capital and purchase of small tools would be provided under the scheme.  
 
 Integration with an organized supply chain by strengthening branding & marketing. 
 Support for the transition of existing 2,00,000 enterprises into the formal framework. 
 Increased access to common services like common processing facility , laboratories, 
storage, packaging, marketing, and incubation services. 
 Strengthening of institutions, research, and training in the food processing sector. 
 Increased access for the enterprises, to professional and technical support. 
The PMFME has seven component schemes. They are as follows: 
1. ONE DISTRICT ONE PRODUCT : The scheme adopts the One District One Product 
(ODOP) approach to reap the benefit of scale in terms of procurement of inputs, availing 
common services and marketing of products. ODOP for the scheme will provide the 
framework for value chain development and alignment of support infrastructure. There 
may be more than one cluster of ODOP products in one district. There may be a cluster of 
ODOP products consisting of more than one adjacent distric t in a State and Support for 
agricultural products would be for their processing along with efforts to reduce wastage, 
proper assaying, and storage and marketing. 
 
2. Upgradation of Individual Micro Food Processing Units:  
a. Credit Linked Subsidy  
Individual micro food processing units desirous of upgradation of their unit can avail 
credit-linked capital subsidy @35% of the eligible project cost with a maximum ceiling 
of Rs.10 lakhs per unit. The beneficiary contribution should be a minimum of 10% and 
the balance should be a loan from a bank. 
b. Capacity Building /Training support for the micro enterprise  
Training support would be provided to individual units that are being provided support 
for capital investment. The training support would also be provided to oth er existing 
units in the districts that are processing ODOP products. The following are the focus 
areas for capacity building under the Scheme: 
 Entrepreneurship development, essential functions of enterprise operations, 
marketing, bookkeeping, registration , FSSAI standards, Udyog Aadhar, GST 
Registration, general hygiene, etc. 
 Specific training designed for ODOP product or the product produced by the unit 
including operations of necessary machines, hygiene issues, packaging, storage, 
procurement, new product development etc.