--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 19 to Page 21
Word Range: 5079 - 6486
Word Count: 1,408
--------------------

[Page 19]
14
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
In a simple way, we can say, that a farmer grows the food and transforms it into a specific 
ingredient. Then, a manufacturer processes the ingredients and packag e them before sending 
them out to distributors. From there, th e distributors sell the food to consumers and 
restaurants, who ultimately eat and consume the food at the end of the chain.  There are few 
new technologies which makes the Supply chain process easier and effective. They are: 
2.2. Some of the Applications of New Technologies in Food Supply Chain 
1. Cloud-Based Communication 
With cloud-based communication, there’s no more reliance on in -person meetings and 
consistent scheduled interaction with each person within the supply chain. When your 
communication is cloud-based, you can lay out the guidelines of each process, making it easy 
for staff, executives, and other professionals involved in the chain to understand their part and 
responsibilities. 
This allows for real -time data exchanges that can help you make important decisions on 
inventory, procedures, and transportation. With this constant communication, all links in the 
supply chain can mitigate problems quickly and m ake choices based on accurate and updated 
data throughout every step in the process. 
2. Inventory Systems 
An efficient inventory system within supply chain management is crucial to profitability. 
Taking advantage of the latest technologies in inventory system s, such as automated 
inventory counts and order tracking, helps ensure you have the most accurate and updated 
numbers at all times. With access to inventory numbers and statistics at the touch of a button, 
supply chain management is quick and reliable. 
2.3. Understanding the Backward Linkages and Forward Linkages 
It is really important to understand that What is Backward Linkages and Forward 
Linkages? 
These linkages involve the sale of goods and services from one business to another and are 
often the most efficient way of ensuring that the supply chain is working. 
 
manufacturing plants.   To understand each  step in bringing food to someone’s table can 
generate a better idea of how to tackle certain problems and ensure that more people gain 
access to food. 
How It Works? 
A food supply chain or network is an end -to-end logistics integration that regulates the food 
supply’s working and assures robust management. The food supply chain network begins 
from the input supplier integrating a chain for end -to-end fulfilment. The input supplier 
sources the commodities for the integration through inventory management, transport, and 
storage, followed by distribution to the  end-users. The network of the food supply chain 
differs from the cold chain management, as the requirement varies for storage, transport, and 
distribution. However, several channels play an integral role in determining the syst em’s 
efficiency apart from that the forecasting, planning, and consumer behaviour. These channels 
significantly impact the supply chain’s working dynamics and work on the newly introduced 
concept of valued integration of supply chains. According to this concept, the supply chain 
management companies in India understand the system from the perspective of the end -user, 
analyse from the demand -pull approach, and consistently make an effort to encourage 
innovation and development in the food supply chain and networking.  It is essential to  
understand the working dynamics of the food supply networks while entering the business 
and arranging a fully functional end -to-end supply chain integration; it is also important to 
source the arrangement from top supply chain companies in India. 
 
Fig: Flow Process of Food Supply Chain

[Page 20]
15
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
Backward Linkages refers to the consolidating chains from farm to proc essing centres and to 
integrate with ancillary industries. It measures the impact of final demand changes on output . 
Whereas, the Forward Linkages refers to the part of the non-farm sector that uses agricultural 
output as an input. It measures the impact of value-added changes on price. 
 
KEY ADVANTAGES OF FORWARD AND BACKWARD LINKAGES 
1. In food processing industry, the input as well as output products are perishable. So, effective 
and seamless backward and forward linkages are crucial for success of any business . In fact, 
inputs such as fruits, vegetables, dairy products, meat, poultry an d fish are so much 
perishable that lack of transportation and backward links would result in their waste.  
2. Further, for industry players, effective links add value to the brand by ensuring high quality 
end to end and better control over the factors of prod uction resulting in cost saving and 
enhanced efficiency. These links provide the industry players better hold over the market and 
aid in facing competition. 
3. However, such links may also lead to monopolization thus may curtail the freedom for 
producer and consumer in the long run.  
4. The forward and backward integration favours large businesses and MNCs thus it may 
adversely impact the small ventures and start - ups due to centralization. It may result in

[Page 21]
16
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
diverged attention and may hinder the specialization pro cess which may result in decreased 
efficiency. 
There are various interventions for strengthening Forward and Backward Integration in Food 
Processing Industry. As the result of interventions by the government the sector is undergoing 
a formalization thus opening avenues for forward and backward integration.  
In context with Food Processing Industry, a Food Processing Unit needs to have strong 
backward linkages with the farmers, farmer producer organizations (FPOs) , self-help 
groups (SHGs), farmer’s groups etc. Further, to be able to sell its processed food, it needs to 
develop strong forward linkages with wholesalers, retailers, exporters etc. 
2.3.1 What is BACKWARD LINKAGE? 
• The feedback effects generated by a base industry on the development of the base 
sector is called backward linkage. The development of the food pr ocessing industry 
has many feedback effects on the agriculture sector itself. 
• Once a food processing industry is established, it results in increasing the demand of 
raw materials provided by the agriculture sector. The establishment of processing 
facilities is itself an essential first step towards stimulating both consumer demand for 
the processed product and an adequate supply of the raw material. 
• The provision of transport, power and other infr a-structural facilities required for 
agro-industries also benefits agricultural production. The development of these and 
other industries provides a more favourable atmosphere for technical progress and the 
acceptance of new ideas in farming itself. 
Over 70% of the rural households depend on agriculture. Agriculture is an important sector of 
Indian economy as it contributes about 17% to the total GDP and  provides employment to 
over 60% of the population. Farmers are the driving force of the economy. T hat’s why, a 
major sum of our population is directly or indirectly involved in farming. Furthermore, each 
industry is dependent on the agriculture products to produce the final products in food 
processing sector. 
2.3.1.1Farmer Producer Organization (FPO): 
 FPOs are voluntary organizations controlled by their farmer -members who actively 
participate in setting their policies and making decisions. 
 
Backward Linkages refers to the consolidating chains from farm to proc essing centres and to 
integrate with ancillary industries. It measures the impact of final demand changes on output . 
Whereas, the Forward Linkages refers to the part of the non-farm sector that uses agricultural 
output as an input. It measures the impact of value-added changes on price. 
 
KEY ADVANTAGES OF FORWARD AND BACKWARD LINKAGES 
1. In food processing industry, the input as well as output products are perishable. So, effective 
and seamless backward and forward linkages are crucial for success of any business . In fact, 
inputs such as fruits, vegetables, dairy products, meat, poultry an d fish are so much 
perishable that lack of transportation and backward links would result in their waste.  
2. Further, for industry players, effective links add value to the brand by ensuring high quality 
end to end and better control over the factors of prod uction resulting in cost saving and 
enhanced efficiency. These links provide the industry players better hold over the market and 
aid in facing competition. 
3. However, such links may also lead to monopolization thus may curtail the freedom for 
producer and consumer in the long run.  
4. The forward and backward integration favours large businesses and MNCs thus it may 
adversely impact the small ventures and start - ups due to centralization. It may result in