--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C26
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 23 to Page 24
Word Range: 7620 - 7869
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 23]
18
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 
Functions of Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 It looks to build the functional capacity of the poor and the marginalized in the field 
of employment and income generating activities. 
 It resolves conflicts through collective leadership and mutual discussion. 
 It provides collateral free loan with terms decided by the group at the market 
driven rates. 
 Such groups work as a collective guarantee system for members who propose to 
borrow from organised sources. The poor collect their savings and save it in banks. 
In return they receive easy access to loans with a small rate of interest to start their 
micro unit enterprise. 
 Consequently, Self-Help Groups have emerged as the most effective mechanism 
for delivery of microfinance services to the poor. 
 
Advantages of Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 Combating social evils: The SHGs play a crucial role in overcoming social evils like 
alcoholism, drug addiction, gambling, etc. 
 Women empowerment: Women SHGs make their members independent from social 
constraints and allow them to make independent decisions. They can ev en actively 
participate in the Gram Sabha. 
 Active participation in democracy: SHGs can actively participate in the aspects of local 
governance. This would mean the inclusion of weaker and marginalised sections of the 
society in the local governance. 
 Increase employment opportunities in rural India : It allows for micro -level 
entrepreneurship within the rural society and reduces too much dependence on 
agriculture. 
 Easier access to government schemes: The government schemes are mostly meant for 
the marginalised sections of the society. It also prevents the exploitation and corruption of 
the government at the ground level. 
 Improves the standard of living: The collective team effort by the SHGs for financial 
inclusion allows for the improvement in the living standard, family planning, healthcare, 
of the vulnerable sections of the society. 
 
 They are open to all persons who are able to use their services and willing to accept 
the responsibilities of membership, without gender, social, racial, political or religious 
discrimination. 
 FPOs operatives provide education and training for their farmer -members, elected 
representatives, managers, and employees so that they can contribute effectively to 
the development of their FPOs. 
 FPOs in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and some other states 
have shown encouraging results and have been able to realise higher returns for their 
produce. 
For example, tribal women in the Pali district of Rajasthan fo rmed a producer company and 
they are getting higher prices for custard apples. 
2.3.1.2 SELF HELP GROUP 
According to the latest statistics, about 25% of the Indian population belongs to the rural 
poor. Women make up one -third of the Indian labour force. However, social constraints have 
prevented them from having access to and making use of the available resources that may help 
them improve their living conditions. Self Help Group is seen by many as the catalyst for rural 
development, women, and social empowerment. Its importance in the Indian economy is seen 
through many success stories like the production of 13 different bio agents to support organic 
farming by Sabari Swasraya Sanghom of Nellarachal tribal hamlet, Kudumbashree SHG, etc. 
They are not only inspirational but also the obvious solutions to the  existing socio-economic 
problems of India. 
Let’s See What Are Self Help Groups (SHGs)? 
 It is an informal associations of people who choose to come together to find ways to 
improve their living conditions.  
 It can be defined as self-governed, peer controlled information group of people with 
similar socio-economic background and having a desire to collectively perform 
common purpose. 
 Villages face numerous problems related to poverty, illiteracy, lack of skills, lack of 
formal credit etc. These problems cannot be tackled at an individual level and need 
collective efforts. 
 Thus SHG can become a vehicle of change for the poor and marginalized. It relies on 
the notion of “Self Help” to encourage self-employment and poverty alleviation.

[Page 24]
19
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 Financial discipline: The members of the SHGs are encouraged to open savings 
accounts in banks. This assures improved living conditions, increased spending 
on education, health, etc. 
Challenges of Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 Lack of knowledge  and proper orientation among SHG -members to take up suitable 
and profitable livelihood options. 
 Patriarchal mind set – primitive thinking and social obligations discourages women 
from participating in SHGs thus limiting their economic avenues. 
 Lack of rural banking facilities – There are about 1.2 lakh bank branches and over 6 
lakh villages. Moreover , many public sector banks and micro -finance institutions are 
unwilling to provide financial services  to the poor as the cost of servicing remains 
high. 
 Sustainability and the quality of operations of the SHGs have been a matter of 
considerable debate. 
 No Security – The SHGs work on mutual trust and confidence of the members. The 
deposits of the SHGs are not secured or safe. 
 Only a minority of the Self -Help Groups are able to raise themselves from a level of 
micro-finance to that of micro-entrepreneurship. 
Opportunities in Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 SHGs often appear to be instrumental in rural poverty alleviation. 
 Economic empowerment through  SHGs, provides women the confidence for 
participation in decision making affairs at the household -level as well as at 
the community-level. 
 Un-utilised and underutilised resources of the community can be mobilised effectively 
under different SHG-initiatives. 
 Leaders and members of successful SHGs bear the potentiality to act as resource 
persons for different community developmental initiatives. 
 Active involvement in different SHG -initiatives helps members to grow  leadership-
skills. Evidences also show that often women SHG leaders are chosen as potential