--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 2508 - 2834
Word Count: 327
--------------------

[Page 12]
7
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 
C. Milk and Milk Products 
India has the largest livestock population in 
terms of cows and buffaloes and world’s largest 
milk producer i.e., 221.06 million tonnes 
annually. In this sector, most of the processing is 
done by the unorganized sector and consumption 
of liquid milk accounts for 46% of the total 
production. Though the share of organized 
sector is less than 15%, and it is expected to rise 
rapidly, especially in the urban regions. Among 
the milk products manufactured by the organized sector, some of the prominent ones are 
ghee, butter, cheese, ice creams, milk powders, malted milk food, condensed milk and infant 
foods. Few corporate players, i ncluding Multi -National Corporations are now focusing on 
this market. For example, Nestle and Britannia have forayed into emerging segments such as 
Ultra Heated Treatment (UHT) and flavoured milk. Ultra Heat Treated (UHT) milk is 
becoming popular and the market is estimated at US$ 33.4 million (Rs1.5 billion). 
D. Grain Processing 
India produces more than 315.7 million tonnes of 
different food grains every year with a 40% share 
in food sector. The major grains such as rice, 
wheat, maize, barley, and millets li ke jowar 
(great millet), bajra (pearl millet), &ragi (finger 
millet) are produced in the country. Most of the 
operations of this industry are rural based and 
shares the 96% of the total value of production in 
primary processing sector. About 15% of the ann ual production of wheat is converted into 
wheat products. There are 10,000 pulse mills in the country with a milling capacity of 14 
million tonnes, in which milling is done about 75% of annual pulse production. The country 
is self-sufficient in grain production and is the second largest rice producer in the world with 
a 20% of global share. The primary milling of rice, wheat, and pulses is the most important 
activity in food grains processing.