--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C35
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 28
Word Range: 10005 - 10361
Word Count: 357
--------------------

[Page 28]
23
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 The linkage with the marketing chain tends to be well established, with both 
organizational & financial links between the producers and retail outlets. The 
pace at which new products are introduced is extremely high and this testifies 
to the importance of product innovation in this phase of industry cycle. 
2.5. Opportunities in Food Processing Sector 
1. Indian consumers are rapidly changing their eating habits. Trends indicate a sharp 
increase in on-the go eating, snacking in between meals, switching to healthier eating 
alternatives, pre -cooked ready to eat meals and increasing consumption of organic 
foods. This has led to a host of new opportunities in the consumer foods market for 
both domestic and international companies to build a stake in this fast  growing 
processed food market.  
2.  While there are several companies entering the market, the sector is largely untapped 
given the low per capita consumption levels and the dramatic changes occurring in the 
Indian lifestyle.  
3.  India is also being developed and nurtured to become a global o utsourcing hub for 
food processing because of its strategic location which connects to various export 
market destinations. There has been a steady improvement in the infrastructure 
available to establish Agri Export Zones (AEZ) in the country. 
4.  In the last  few years the MFPI has funded the development of various Mega Food 
Park projects. The ‘Make in India’ campaign has established more than 40 Mega Food 
Parks (MFP) and also provided fundamental infrastructure to operationalize new 
companies rapidly. The est imated investment by the government in this initiative for 
FPS so far has been more than USD 2 billion. 
Future Prospects 
Food Processing Industry in India is increasingly seen as a potential source for driving the 
rural economy as it brings about synergy b etween the consumer, industry and agriculture. 
Ministry of food processing has a vision to become food factory of the world by 2025, when 
the level of processing would be 20% from the present one of merely 8%. The growth of the 
food processing industry is crucial for greater social and economic development of the 
country, considering it is the first organized linkage between the farm and shelf. This is 
particularly relevant in an emerging country like India, where equitable growth is a primary 
concern for the government.