--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C31
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 26
Word Range: 8935 - 9254
Word Count: 320
--------------------

[Page 26]
21
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
seller of the goods but they could be an organization acting on their behalf because exporters 
generate their revenues from selling into wider domestic and international markets and 
generates income independent of the performance of the local economy. 
2.4. Economic Linkage Effects of Food Processing Industry 
Linkages are one of the essential feature of the industry. It is a phenomenon which measures 
the capability of an industry to generate demand for the products of the other industries.  
There are three types of linkages:  
1. Forward Linkage: It is when, the establishment of a processing industry can lead to 
the development and establishment of the number of advanced stage industries.  For 
example, manufacturing of paper, paper bags, footwear and leather goods. 
 
 
 
2. Backward Linkage: The feedback effects generated by a base industry on the development 
of the base sector is called backward linkage. The development of the food processing 
industry has many feedback effects on the agriculture sector itself. For example, once a food 
processing industry is established, it results in increasing the demand of raw materials 
provided by the agriculture sector. The establishment of processing facilities is itself an 
essential first step towards stimul ating both consumer demand for the processed product and 
an adequate supply of the raw material.  
 
 
 
 
 
Establishment upstream and 
downstream industries. Like 
Food Beverages, Juices etc. 
 
Increase demand of 
Marketing, Advertisement and 
other associated industries. 
 
The result of all these will be 
increase in employment 
generation. 
 
Increase in income and 
growth of the economy 
 
Food Processing 
Industry 
 
 
Increase Demand 
for Raw Materials 
 
 
 
Farmers produces more to meet the 
demand and Agriculture Production 
increases 
 
 
 In the process, farm 
labor becomes more 
productive 
 
 
 
Finally, wages and 
profits of the farmer 
increases. 
 
 
 
Farmer’s income increases and 
with increase in income, rural 
demand for the industrial product 
also increases 
. 
 
 
 
Base Food 
Processing Industry.