--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C43
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 32
Word Range: 12145 - 12394
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 32]
27
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
Ministry is collaborating with the Food Industry Capacity and Skill Initiative (FICSI), 
the sector Skill Council (SSC) in food processing, for the validation of the Qualification 
Packs (QPs) for identified job roles and developing course curriculum for food 
processing sector through the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship 
and Management (NIFTEM). 
5. Food Safety and Quality Assurance Infrastructure : Quality and Food Safety have 
become competitive edge in the global market for food products. For the all -round 
development of the food processing sector in the country. Apart from this, in the interest 
of consumer safety and public health, there is a need to ensure that th e quality food 
products manufactured and sold in the market meet the stringent parameters prescribed 
by the food safety regulator. 
6. Creation/Expansion of Food Processing & Preservation Capacities : The main 
objective of the Scheme is creation of processing a nd preservation capacities and 
modernisation/ expansion of existing food processing units with a view to increasing the 
level of processing, value addition leading to reduction of wastage. The processing 
activities undertaken by the individual units covers  a wide range of post -harvest 
processes resulting in value addition and/or enhancing shelf life with specialized 
facilities required for preservation of perishables. While expansion of processing 
capacity is necessary to increase the level of processing an d reduce wastage, the 
induction of modern technology is intended to make a clear difference in terms of 
process efficiencies as well as improving the quality of the end product. The setting up 
of new units and modernization/ expansion of existing units are  covered under the 
scheme. 
Scheme Overview 
Government of India had approved the umbrella Central sector scheme, SAMPADA - 
Scheme for Agro -marine processing and Development of Agro -processing Clusters 
with a total allocation of Rs.6000 crores on 03.05.2017 f or implementation period 
2016-2020 coterminous with the 14th Finance Commission cycle. The scheme has been 
subsequently renamed as ‘Pradhan Mantri Kisan SAMPADA Yojana (PMKSY)’. Later 
PMKSY, with the approval of Department of Expenditure, was extend ed for another 
year i.e. 2020-21. 
Now Government of India (GOI) has approved the continuation of the Central Sector 
Scheme – Pradhan Mantri  Kisan SAMPADA Yojana (Scheme for Agro -Marine 
Processing and Development of Agro -Processing Clusters) with an allocation of Rs.