--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C57
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 41 to Page 42
Word Range: 16003 - 16252
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 41]
36
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
2. Processed fruits and vegetables. 
3. Marine products 
4. Innovative/ organic products of SMEs including free range eggs, Poultry meat eggs, 
egg products. 
5. Mozzarella cheese. 
Eligibility: 
 Any proprietary firm or partnership firm or Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) or a 
Company registered in India or Co --operative selling food products completely 
manufactured in India, either by directly and/or through contract manufacturers. 
 SME units manufacturing innovative/ organic food products across four product 
segments and making an application for seeking approval for coverage under the 
scheme. 
 
 
3.1.4 PLI Scheme for Millet Based Products 
The Government has approved the Production Linked Incentive Scheme for Food Processing 
Industry for Millet -based products (PLISMBP) for i mplementation during 2022 -23 to 2026 -
27 with an outlay of 800 cores. The scheme is being implemented by the Ministry of Food 
Processing Industries (MoFPI). 
Objective of the scheme: 
The objectives of the Production Linked Incentive Scheme for Millet Based  Products 
(PLISMBP) are to increase usage of millets in food products and  promote its value addition. 
 
 
Objective of the Scheme 
1. Support the creation of global food manufacturing champions. 
2. Promote Indian brands of food products. 
3. Increase employment opportunities for off -farm jobs, ensure remunerative prices of farm 
produce.  
4. Higher income to farmers. 
The Food product segments covered in the scheme via 
1. Ready to cook/ Ready to eat (RTC/ RTE) food including millet based products.

[Page 42]
37
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
These objectives are sought to be achieved  through incentivizing manufacture of selected 
millet-based products and their sale in domestic and export markets. 
Eligibility: 
 Udyam Registration Certificate is mandatory for MSME Applicants. 
 Incentive under the scheme shall be provided to the Applicants engaged in manufacturing 
or intending to manufacture eligible products in India & sales of such products. 
 The entire chain of manufacturing process, including primary processing, of eligible food 
products starting from raw materials to finished product covered in the Application for 
incentive under the Scheme is required to take place in India. However, use of  additives, 
flavors, and edible oil in millet products, this condition would not apply. 
 
Detailed guidelines  can be referred from the link given below : 
(https://www.mofpi.gov.in/sites/default/files/operation_guidelines_on_production_linked_inc
entive_scheme_for_millet_based_products_0001.pdf. 
3.2 Other Government Initiatives 
3.2.1 PMMSY (Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana) 
 
The Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, 
Government of India is implementing Pradhan Mantri  Matsya Sampada Yojana – A scheme 
to bring about Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development of fisheries 
sector in India at an estimated investment of Rs. 20 ,050 crores for holistic development of 
fisheries sector including welfare of fishers. PMMSY is being implemented in all the States 
and Union Territories for a period of 5 years from FY 2020-21 to FY 2024-25.