--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C62
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 45
Word Range: 17265 - 17582
Word Count: 318
--------------------

[Page 45]
40
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 
Key Benefits: 
 Guarantee on credits for loans up to INR 2 crores, without third -party guarantee and 
collateral. 
 Guarantee on coverages range from 75% (others) to 85% (Micro Enterprise up to INR 
5 lakh). 
 50% of the coverage is for retail activity. 
Applicable for: 
Current Entrepreneurs and Aspirant Entrepreneurs. 
 
 
For detailed guidelines please visit https://www.cgtmse.in 
3.2.5 Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) 
The scheme aims at establishing the traditional artisans and industries into clusters in order to 
support them towards competitive for long- term sustainability goals. 
 
3.2.3 NPDD (National Program for Dairy Development) 
The NPDD scheme aims to enhance quality of milk and milk products and increase 
share of organized milk procurement.  
 
 
The scheme has two components: 
a. Component 'A': It focuses towards creating/strengthening of infrastructure 
for quality milk testing equipment as well as primary chilling facilities for 
State Cooperative Dairy Federations/ District Cooperative Milk Producers’ 
Union/SHG run private dairy/Milk Producer Companies/Farmer Producer 
Organisations. The scheme will be implemented across the coun try for the 
period of five years from 2021-22 to 2025-26. 
b. Component 'B'  (Dairying Through Cooperatives) provides financial 
assistance from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) as per project 
agreement already signed with them. It is an externally aided project, 
envisaged to be implemented during the period from 2021 -22 to 2025 -26 on 
pilot basis in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar initially with the objective of creation of 
necessary dairy infrastructure for the purpose of providing market linkages for 
the p roduce in villages and for strengthening of capacity building of stake -
holding institutions from village to State level. 
 
3.2.4 Credit Guarantee Scheme for Micro & Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) 
Objective: 
The scheme aims at motivating first generation entrepr eneurs towards self -employment by 
providing credit guarantee funding for third-party guarantee-free / collateral free loans.