--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C60
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 43 to Page 44
Word Range: 16765 - 17014
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 43]
38
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
PMMSY is designed to address critical gaps in the fisheries value chain from fish production, 
productivity and quality to technology, post -harvest infrastructure and marketing. It aims to 
modernize and strengthen t he value chain, enhance traceability and establish a robust 
fisheries management framework while simultaneously ensuring the socio -economic welfare 
of fishers and fish farmers. 
From Blue Revolution to PMMSY 
 Enhancement of fish production from 10.26 million  metric tons (2014 -15) to 13.75 
million metric tons (2018-19). 
 Productivity increased from 2.3 tons per hectare to 3.3 tons per hectare. 
 Exports increased from Rs 33,442 crore to Rs 46,589 crore (2018-19). 
Objectives of Scheme 
 Harness the potential of the fisheries sector in a sustainable, responsible, inclusive and 
equitable manner 
 Enhance fish production and productivity through expansion, intensification, 
diversification and productive utilization of land and water 
 Modernize and strengthen the value chai n including post-harvest management and quality 
improvement 
 Double fishers and fish farmers’ incomes and generate meaningful employment 
 Enhance the contribution of the fisheries sector to Agricultural GVA and exports 
 Ensure social, physical and economic security for fishers and fish farmers 
 Build a robust fisheries management and regulatory framework 
 
 
These objectives are sought to be achieved  through incentivizing manufacture of selected 
millet-based products and their sale in domestic and export markets. 
Eligibility: 
 Udyam Registration Certificate is mandatory for MSME Applicants. 
 Incentive under the scheme shall be provided to the Applicants engaged in manufacturing 
or intending to manufacture eligible products in India & sales of such products. 
 The entire chain of manufacturing process, including primary processing, of eligible food 
products starting from raw materials to finished product covered in the Application for 
incentive under the Scheme is required to take place in India. However, use of  additives, 
flavors, and edible oil in millet products, this condition would not apply. 
 
Detailed guidelines  can be referred from the link given below : 
(https://www.mofpi.gov.in/sites/default/files/operation_guidelines_on_production_linked_inc
entive_scheme_for_millet_based_products_0001.pdf. 
3.2 Other Government Initiatives 
3.2.1 PMMSY (Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana) 
 
The Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, 
Government of India is implementing Pradhan Mantri  Matsya Sampada Yojana – A scheme 
to bring about Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development of fisheries 
sector in India at an estimated investment of Rs. 20 ,050 crores for holistic development of 
fisheries sector including welfare of fishers. PMMSY is being implemented in all the States 
and Union Territories for a period of 5 years from FY 2020-21 to FY 2024-25.

[Page 44]
39
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
3.2.3 NPDD (National Program for Dairy Development) 
The NPDD scheme aims to enhance quality of milk and milk products and increase 
share of organized milk procurement.  
 
 
The scheme has two components: 
a. Component 'A': It focuses towards creating/strengthening of infrastructure 
for quality milk testing equipment as well as primary chilling facilities for 
State Cooperative Dairy Federations/ District Cooperative Milk Producers’ 
Union/SHG run private dairy/Milk Producer Companies/Farmer Producer 
Organisations. The scheme will be implemented across the coun try for the 
period of five years from 2021-22 to 2025-26. 
b. Component 'B'  (Dairying Through Cooperatives) provides financial 
assistance from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) as per project 
agreement already signed with them. It is an externally aided project, 
envisaged to be implemented during the period from 2021 -22 to 2025 -26 on 
pilot basis in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar initially with the objective of creation of 
necessary dairy infrastructure for the purpose of providing market linkages for 
the p roduce in villages and for strengthening of capacity building of stake -
holding institutions from village to State level. 
 
3.2.4 Credit Guarantee Scheme for Micro & Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) 
Objective: 
The scheme aims at motivating first generation entrepr eneurs towards self -employment by 
providing credit guarantee funding for third-party guarantee-free / collateral free loans.