--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 9
Word Range: 1493 - 1872
Word Count: 380
--------------------

[Page 9]
4
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
Consumer preferences of Indian Market 
 
 
Segments in Food Processing Sector 
1. Primary food processing  turns agricultural products, such as raw wheat kernels 
or livestock, into something that can eventually be eaten . This category includes 
ingredients that are produced by ancient processes such as drying, th reshing, 
winnowing and milling grain, shelling nuts, and butchering animals for meat . 
2. Secondary food processing  is the everyday process of creating food from 
ingredients that are ready to use  like b aking bread, fermenting fish and making 
wine, beer, and other alcoholic products are traditional forms of secondary food 
processing . 
3. Tertiary food processing  is the commercial production of what is commonly 
called processed food . These are ready -to-eat or heat -and-serve foods, such as TV 
dinners and re -heated airline meals  
Nutrition
Novel product range
Convenience and taste
Value for Money
Awareness about health concerns
 
products grew by 50%.  
Food Processing  is the transformation of agricultural products  into food, or of one form of 
food into other forms. It includes many forms of processing foods, from grinding grains  to 
make raw flour  to home cookin g to complex industrial methods that are employed to  make 
convenience foods.  
Food processing sector with higher level of processing helps in  
 Reduction of wastage 
 Improves value addition 
 Promotes crop diversification 
 Ensures better return to the farmers 
 Promotes employment  
 Increases export earnings  
1.2 Market Size 
On a worldwide scale, India is the largest country in terms of food production, processing, 
supply, and consumption. Indian food market is ranked 6th in the world, with 70% of sales and 
5th in production, consumption, and export. India exports 13% of its o verall manufacturing 
output and 6% of its industrial investment. Manufacturing and agriculture contribute 8.80 
percent and 8.39 percent, respectively, to India Gross Value Addition. The Indian food industry 
was valued at USD 143.51 Billion in 2020 and is p rojected to reach USD 235.67 Billion by 
2028, growing at a CAGR of 6.6% from 2021 to 2028 . The food processing sector will be led 
by the demand in retail and the rise of health-conscious consumers.