--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C22
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 21
Word Range: 6372 - 6756
Word Count: 385
--------------------

[Page 21]
16
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
diverged attention and may hinder the specialization pro cess which may result in decreased 
efficiency. 
There are various interventions for strengthening Forward and Backward Integration in Food 
Processing Industry. As the result of interventions by the government the sector is undergoing 
a formalization thus opening avenues for forward and backward integration.  
In context with Food Processing Industry, a Food Processing Unit needs to have strong 
backward linkages with the farmers, farmer producer organizations (FPOs) , self-help 
groups (SHGs), farmer’s groups etc. Further, to be able to sell its processed food, it needs to 
develop strong forward linkages with wholesalers, retailers, exporters etc. 
2.3.1 What is BACKWARD LINKAGE? 
• The feedback effects generated by a base industry on the development of the base 
sector is called backward linkage. The development of the food pr ocessing industry 
has many feedback effects on the agriculture sector itself. 
• Once a food processing industry is established, it results in increasing the demand of 
raw materials provided by the agriculture sector. The establishment of processing 
facilities is itself an essential first step towards stimulating both consumer demand for 
the processed product and an adequate supply of the raw material. 
• The provision of transport, power and other infr a-structural facilities required for 
agro-industries also benefits agricultural production. The development of these and 
other industries provides a more favourable atmosphere for technical progress and the 
acceptance of new ideas in farming itself. 
Over 70% of the rural households depend on agriculture. Agriculture is an important sector of 
Indian economy as it contributes about 17% to the total GDP and  provides employment to 
over 60% of the population. Farmers are the driving force of the economy. T hat’s why, a 
major sum of our population is directly or indirectly involved in farming. Furthermore, each 
industry is dependent on the agriculture products to produce the final products in food 
processing sector. 
2.3.1.1Farmer Producer Organization (FPO): 
 FPOs are voluntary organizations controlled by their farmer -members who actively 
participate in setting their policies and making decisions. 
 
Backward Linkages refers to the consolidating chains from farm to proc essing centres and to 
integrate with ancillary industries. It measures the impact of final demand changes on output . 
Whereas, the Forward Linkages refers to the part of the non-farm sector that uses agricultural 
output as an input. It measures the impact of value-added changes on price. 
 
KEY ADVANTAGES OF FORWARD AND BACKWARD LINKAGES 
1. In food processing industry, the input as well as output products are perishable. So, effective 
and seamless backward and forward linkages are crucial for success of any business . In fact, 
inputs such as fruits, vegetables, dairy products, meat, poultry an d fish are so much 
perishable that lack of transportation and backward links would result in their waste.  
2. Further, for industry players, effective links add value to the brand by ensuring high quality 
end to end and better control over the factors of prod uction resulting in cost saving and 
enhanced efficiency. These links provide the industry players better hold over the market and 
aid in facing competition. 
3. However, such links may also lead to monopolization thus may curtail the freedom for 
producer and consumer in the long run.  
4. The forward and backward integration favours large businesses and MNCs thus it may 
adversely impact the small ventures and start - ups due to centralization. It may result in