--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 17
Word Range: 4606 - 4988
Word Count: 383
--------------------

[Page 17]
12
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 
Fig: Food Supply Chain 
There are different parts of the food supply chain apply to different industries. For example, 
for food management and distribution, their supply chain involves the incoming quantity of 
materials, ways to process raw ingredients, storage, delivery, and more. And for farmers, the 
supply chain involves sourcing seeds and livestock, harvesting crops and meat, and shipping 
them to manufacturers and food processors. 
Why Food Supply Chain is Important? 
Now days, Food supply chain holds a lot of significance by having a proper chain wherein 
farmers, food processors and distributors can trace each process which allows more 
transparency to them so that the event of small contamination source can easily traceable an d 
finding solutions is much simpler. 
As technology and food processing practices have evolved, humans have created complex 
systems to grow, process, and deliver food to people all over the world. But to ensure that as 
many people get food on their table as  possible, each part of the process needs to be 
traceable. 
A recent study, shows that over 1.4 billion tons of food waste are generated every year.  
For effective food waste management and to ensure that food goes where it needs to go, an 
efficient food sup ply chain is of outmost important . While significant chunks of food waste 
come from the homes and restaurants, there is  also a large percentage  from the farms and 
 
Chapter 2 
Understanding supply chain and various opportunities in food processing 
sector 
 
2.1. Introduction to Food Supply chain 
A robust food supply chain is essential in order to produce safe food products that meet the 
consumer demand for high quality food. The retail and hospitality industries that buy the 
products, for example, want to purchase high quality food at a low price from the supplier so 
they can still make a profit and offer competitive prices. The key to meeting consumer 
demand for high quality food products starts with a well-managed food supply chain, and this 
will also help to deter problems from arising and causing loss down the line. 
Food supply chains are also vital in ensuring  food safety  and traceability of products, 
meaning both manufacturers and consumers can easily trace food back to i ts origins. For 
manufacturers, this is needed if product recalls or withdrawals are required and for 
consumers, it means that they can understand the origin of their food and how it has been 
produced.  
In recent years, people have become more aware of the environmental impact that certain 
food supply chains may be having. A key takeaway from this is the focus on short food 
supply chains. There are economic, environmental and social benefits to shorter food chains 
and the increased connection to where their food comes from, is likely to lead to less waste 
and increased trust among consumers. 
Longer supply chains, on the other hand, result in less understanding of the agricultural 
processes behind the food we eat, the challenges faced by farmers and the impact  of our 
choices on the environment. In fact, short food chains offer mutual benefits to both farmers 
and consumers, acting as a model to increase transparency, trust, growth and equity. 
What is Food Supply Chain? 
The food supply chain is a summary of every  process involved in producing and delivering 
food to households and distributors. Food goes through a lot of processes before landing on a 
person’s table. All of these processes from farming, processing and packaging, and down to 
food delivery are a part of the food supply chain.