--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-102-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-102
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 764 - 1089
Word Count: 326
--------------------

[Page 3]
reporting required to support the emission 
removal accounting. 
Under Nestlé’s Removals Framework, we have 
been developing and implementing large-scale 
and long -term reforestation and agroforestry 
projects within our value chain. Many of these 
projects are part of the Global Reforestation 
Program (GRP).  
All projects under Nestlé’s Removals 
Framework are required to comply with the 
following best -practice principles to ensure 
their sustainable long -term benefits for the 
environment and communities, taking into 
account both local contexts and international 
standards: 
• Additionality (applicable for large scale 
projects); 
• Permanence; 
• Legal & Carbon rights; 
• Eligibility; 
• Real & M easurable (independently verified, 
consistent); 
 • No double counting; 
• Stakeholder Consultation & Consent; 
• No harm/ Additional Co-benefits. 
 
This rigorous set up enables us to create 
transformative action and innovative ways of 
working with stakeholder s, including our 
suppliers. For example, we have signed over 
20-year contracts to ensure long -term success 
of large -scale restoration projects that will 
contribute to the transformation of , for 
example, coffee production regions in 
Honduras, Colombia, and Nicaragua. Other 
projects are under way in Australia, China, 
Ghana, Ivory Coast, the Philippines, Thailand 
and Vietnam.  
 
 
How do we work on the 
ground? 
We work with global and local partners to 
implement, monitor, verify and selectively 
certify the NCS projects. Because both 
reforestation expertise and carbon expertise are 
critical for the success of our projects, we pair 
our planting partners with carbon  partners 
where deemed necessary. This allows us to 
work with leading organizations in their field of 
expertise and ensure projects are executed 
based on the most up -to-date scientific 
evidence and strong local knowledge.  
This process of co-designing projects with our 
partners requires trust and ongoing 
relationships, which in turn enable s long-term 
commitments to positive transformation in 
critical sourcing regions and for the farmers on 
the ground. 
One important aspect is to ensure that our NCS 
projects are inclusive of local communities and 
indigenous peoples. Therefore, we aim to drive 
both projects that are small, distributed and 
integrated into the farming systems, as well as 
larger ones in the surrounding sourcing 
landscape.  
For the same reason, we do not apply carbon 
credit certification to all our projects, as we