--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
Summary 
Investing in forest conservation and restoration needs to happen now, especially by companies in the 
land use sector like Nestlé. This is key to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement and will help drive 
the transformation to regenerative food systems. Y et, companies operating in this sector are facing 
uncertainty due to the lack of clear guidance on what will and will not count towards their science-based 
net zero targets.  
Nestlé's Supply Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing Landscape Removals Framework  'Nestlé’s Re movals 
Framework'. was developed to guide Nestlé in the execution of large scale Natural Climate Solutions 
(NCS) projects within our agricultural value chain, as part of our Net Zero Roadmap. 
Nestlé’s Removals Framework provides guidance on: 
• The location of NCS projects, taking into account the link to the origins of the ingredie nts we 
source. 
• Verification & monitoring requirements of those NCS projects. 
 
In May 2023, Nestlé’s Removals Framework was updated to reflect new developments of the global 
standards such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Land Sector and Removal Guidance  and SBTi Forest, 
Land and Agriculture (FLAG) Guidance . It will continue to be revised upon the final publication of the 
GHGP Land Sector and Removals Guidance in early 2024. 
Throughout this document, carbon removals are defined as interventions that absorb CO2 from the 
atmosphere and store it somewhere else, such as in trees or soil, within Nestlé’s value chain (i.e., our 
supply chains and the broader sourcing landscapes of which our supply chains are a part). 
 
 
 
NESTLÉ'S SUPPLY CHAIN (SCOPE 3) AND 
SOURCING LANDSCAPE REMOVALS FRAMEWORK 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
Role of Natural Climate 
Solutions in mitigating climate 
change 
The latest IPCC report is clear. There is no 
pathway to 1.5°C without a near immediate halt 
to deforestation and significant restoration of 
forests and natural ecosystems. 
And the food system has a key role to play. 
Agriculture is the primary driver of deforestation, 
natural habitat loss and degradation as well as 
biodiversity loss. The food system is estimated to 
contribute to more than a third of man -made 
greenhouse gas emissions.  
To feed the world for generations to come, we 
need to transition towards a regenerative food 
system that helps protect and restore the 
environment, improve farmers’ livelihoods, 
enhance the well-being of farming communities, 
and protect human rights.  
NCS can play a crucial role in reducing land 
sector emissions and keeping to the 1.5°C 
pathway. When done right, NCS can have 
multiple additional benefits, including 
safeguarding biodiversity, improving water 
supplies and supporting livelihoods for l ocal 
communities. Implementing NCS does not 
replace, but go hand in hand with the need for 
companies to reduce emissions from production 
practices.  
 
Nestlé’s Supply Chain (Scope 3) 
and Sourcing Landscape 
Removals Framework 
Companies within the food and agricultural 
sectors are uniquely suited to implement NCS 
projects within their value chain. They have a 
vested interest in the long -term resilience and 
productivity of their sourcing landscapes. They 
recognize the importance of addressing carbon 
impacts as well as promoting broader co -
benefits, such as livelihood improvement, 
economic development and biodiversity 
enhancement in these landscapes. 
However, despite the continued development 
of global standards, compan ies are still faced 
with a certain level of ambiguity and 
uncertainty. They need clearer guidance 
regarding what can count towards science -
based net -zero targets and how to execute 
carbon removal projects. 
To navigate  the ambiguity and uncertainty 
without delaying our action, Nestlé,  together 
with our partners, developed the Nestlé’s 
Supply Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing 
Landscape Removals Framework  This 
framework allows us to identify which NCS 
projects to invest in and implement in 
collaboration with our partners, and ultimately 
enables us to take immediate action at the scale 
we need. 
Nestlé’s Removals Framework takes a risk -
based approach to ensure carbon removals can 
be claimed towards Nestl é’s climate 
commitments following the most updated 
global standards and best practice s (e.g. ….). It  
defines the level of assurance, the type of 
evidence and frequency of measurement and 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
reporting required to support the emission 
removal accounting. 
Under Nestlé’s Removals Framework, we have 
been developing and implementing large-scale 
and long -term reforestation and agroforestry 
projects within our value chain. Many of these 
projects are part of the Global Reforestation 
Program (GRP).  
All projects under Nestlé’s Removals 
Framework are required to comply with the 
following best -practice principles to ensure 
their sustainable long -term benefits for the 
environment and communities, taking into 
account both local contexts and international 
standards: 
• Additionality (applicable for large scale 
projects); 
• Permanence; 
• Legal & Carbon rights; 
• Eligibility; 
• Real & M easurable (independently verified, 
consistent); 
 • No double counting; 
• Stakeholder Consultation & Consent; 
• No harm/ Additional Co-benefits. 
 
This rigorous set up enables us to create 
transformative action and innovative ways of 
working with stakeholder s, including our 
suppliers. For example, we have signed over 
20-year contracts to ensure long -term success 
of large -scale restoration projects that will 
contribute to the transformation of , for 
example, coffee production regions in 
Honduras, Colombia, and Nicaragua. Other 
projects are under way in Australia, China, 
Ghana, Ivory Coast, the Philippines, Thailand 
and Vietnam.  
 
 
How do we work on the 
ground? 
We work with global and local partners to 
implement, monitor, verify and selectively 
certify the NCS projects. Because both 
reforestation expertise and carbon expertise are 
critical for the success of our projects, we pair 
our planting partners with carbon  partners 
where deemed necessary. This allows us to 
work with leading organizations in their field of 
expertise and ensure projects are executed 
based on the most up -to-date scientific 
evidence and strong local knowledge.  
This process of co-designing projects with our 
partners requires trust and ongoing 
relationships, which in turn enable s long-term 
commitments to positive transformation in 
critical sourcing regions and for the farmers on 
the ground. 
One important aspect is to ensure that our NCS 
projects are inclusive of local communities and 
indigenous peoples. Therefore, we aim to drive 
both projects that are small, distributed and 
integrated into the farming systems, as well as 
larger ones in the surrounding sourcing 
landscape.  
For the same reason, we do not apply carbon 
credit certification to all our projects, as we 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
believe that this would lead to excluding 
community-based or smaller projects due to 
prohibitive costs and processes. 
Monitoring & verification is critical for ensuring 
long-term success o f NCS projects where 
carbon and co-benefits are achieved during the 
lifetime of the projects and beyond. Each 
project is set up with a monitoring plan over the 
project’s lifetime. We have guidance on short - 
and long-term monitoring frequency as well as 
on the level of verification required. We 
continue to monitor this evolving space to find 
partners, explore innovative and new solutions, 
and update our own inte rnal guidance on this 
topic. 
 
Our intention & next steps 
The question for land -use sector companies is 
no longer whether they should invest in NCS 
interventions in their value chain, including on 
farms and in the surrounding landscape, but 
how action can b e taken in a timely, credible 
and permanent way. 
In 2021, Nestlé developed the first version of 
this guidance framework and the processes 
that underpin the implementation of our NCS 
projects. Since then, we have been applying this 
framework across large scale carbon removal 
projects within our value chain. 
In 2022, we scaled up our investments in NCS. 
As we developed and implemented more 
projects, we continued refining our project 
design and implementation using the adaptive 
management approach. We also strengthened 
the integration and reporting of metrics beyond 
carbon, such as biodiversity, water and social 
impacts to ensure our contribution to the 
holistic landscape restoration.  
In 2023, we took into account the new releases 
and updates of international carbon accounting 
standards, in the  updated Nestlé’s Supply 
Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing Landscape 
Removals Framework.  We will continue 
reviewing and updating this framework 
according to the GHG Protocol and the SBTi 
updates. We also commit to working with 
organizations and networks such as the 
International Platform for Insetting (IPI) and 
SBTi Beyond Value Chain Mitigation Initiative to 
advocate and mainstream climate action within 
other peer companies’ value chains. 
Nestlé is acting now, and  Nestlé’s Removals 
Framework guides us in selecting large -scale 
value chain interventions with high integrity that 
will help keep to the 1.5°C pathway. 
As the urgency has been made clear by the 
IPCC, we encourage other companies and 
organizations in the sector to engage in the 
conversation and consider taking such an 
approach forward together with their supply 
chain partners and peers. 
  


--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
Nestlé’s Supply Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing Landscape Removals Framework 
REMOVAL 
PROJECT 
ZONES 
1. ON-FARM 2. SUPPLY SHED FARM 
– 
 COMMODITY 
 SPECIFIC 
3. SUPPLY SHED FARM – 
NON-COMMODITY SPECIFIC  
4. SOURCING 
LANDSCAPE 
 
DESCRIPTION 
On-farm, commodity 
specific: Project occurs 
on a farm that is a known  
supplier (direct or indirect) 
of an 
ingredient or raw material 
procured 
by Nestlé. 
On-farm, commodity-
specific:  
Project occurs on a farm 
that is part of a group of 
suppliers in a specifically 
defined geography (for 
example, part of an 
agricultural cooperative) 
that Nestlé sources an 
ingredient or multiple  
ingredients from, directly 
or indirectly.  
 
It may not be feasible to 
demonstrate which 
specific farm supplies 
Nestlé. However, we can 
demonstrate the farm is 
in the group that do, for 
example by 
demonstrating that these 
farms provide 
ingredients to Nestlé’s 
direct  
suppliers. This group of 
suppliers are also 
referred to as supply 
shed1.  
 
On-farm, non-commodity specific:  
Project occurs on a neighboring 
farm  
that is very closely connected  
(environmentally and/or 
socioeconomically) to a farm from 
which  
Nestlé sources an ingredient or  
multiple ingredients from; however, 
this specific farm does not grow the 
ingredient(s) Nestlé sources. 
On land, connected to 
supply shed: 
Project occurs on land that 
is connected  
environmentally and/or 
socio-economically to the 
supply shed from  
which Nestlé sources 
ingredients, and  
as such, the project is 
highly likely to  
provide direct or indirect 
benefits to the  
sustainability and socio-
economic  
health of the supply shed 
and wider  
sourcing landscape. 
 
1 This follows the definition from Value Change’s Value Chain (Scope 3) Interventions – Greenhouse Gas Accounting & Reporting Guidance, version 1.1, May 2021. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
EXAMPLES 
OF PROJECT 
TYPES 
• Agroforestry 
• Silvopasture 
• Natural 
Regeneration on 
farm 
• Reforestation on 
farm 
• Agroforestry 
• Silvopasture 
• Natural Regeneration 
on farm 
• Reforestation on 
farm 
• Agroforestry 
• Silvopasture 
• Natural Regeneration 
• Reforestation on farm  
• Agroforestry (IF 
project occurs on 
farm) 
• Silvopasture (IF 
project occurs on 
farm) 
• Reforestation  
• Natural Regeneration 
• Restoration within 
riparian zones 
• Wildlife corridor 
restoration between 
farms 
• Wetland, peatland, 
or other types of 
natural landscape 
restoration 
• Mangroves 
MONITORING 
FREQUENCY Early monitoring:   
Planting partner first 3 
years    
AND carbon partner first 
1-3 years   
  
Long-term monitoring:   
Planting partner punctual 
all 3-5 years AND Carbon 
partner all 3-5 years for 
carbon  
If remote sensing 
available, then more 
frequent (annually)  
  
General:   
Early monitoring:   
Planting partner first 3 years    
AND carbon partner first 1-3 years   
  
Long-term monitoring:   
Planting partner punctual all 3-5 years AND Carbon partner all 3 
years for carbon  
If remote sensing available, then more frequent (annually)  
  
General:   
Minimum duration to 20 years   
Continuous remote sensing beyond 20 years  
According to certification  
scheme requirements. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
Minimum duration to 20 
years   
Continuous remote 
sensing beyond 20 years  
MINIMUM 
LEVEL OF 
VERIFICATION 
2nd party verification   
(With third party audit/verification check recommended)  
3rd party certification (with 
verified carbon credits 
required) 
 