--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 2292 - 2541
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
2.1. The less elastic supply chain actors bear the brunt
The administrative costs added by the EUDR to the supply chain have 
a similar effect as an import tax. The distribution of the cost between 
producers and importers is affected by the elasticity of the commodities' 
supply and demand functions. As we illustrate in Box 1 , the supply chain 
actor that is less elastic, i.e. reacts less strongly to the compliance cost, 
will bear the greater share of the costs. Cases when inelastic supply 
meets elastic demand (scenario B in Fig. 1 ) may be particularly worrying 
because of the social implications that a decreasing producer price may 
have, especially for smallholders ( Azevedo-Ramos and Lima, 2024 ). 
Inelastic supply is typical for commodities for which producers have 
locked-in path dependencies, such as perennial crops which do not allow 
for swift reactions.
Apart from price effects, there may also be quantity effects to look 
out for. When both supply and demand functions are elastic, the com -
modity market may contract due to the additional cost, providing room 
for a substitute crop (scenario D in Fig. 1 ). This is of concern especially 
when a commodity regulated by the EUDR, such as coffee in Latin 
America, is easily supplanted by an illicit crop such as coca ( Grisaffi 
et al., 2021 ). However, which of the four scenarios applies to a certain 
case will depend on the specificities of regional production systems and 
their commodity and substitute markets.
2.2. Possibilities for data monetisation
To cushion or even avoid the undesirable effects administrative costs 
can entail, there is need to explore whether the cost could be recuper -
ated. One possibility could be to develop a market for data monetisation. 
Data monetisation refers to the commercialisation of data and infor -
mation assets to yield financial returns like selling data or analytics- 
based services or improving operations, products or pricing ( Ofulue 
and Benyoucef, 2024 ; Zhang et al., 2023 ).
Opportunities for data monetisation can be placed on a continuum 
ranging from insight to foresight. This continuum demonstrates how 
data can be converted and translated to aggregated data driven insight 
to gain relevant information about farming practices, new markets, 
business opportunities and entry points that would otherwise be inac -
cessible ( Chamorro-Padial et al., 2025 ). Following Ritala et al. (2024) , 
the information requirements of the EUDR [Art. 9] and referring to the 
cocoa value chain as an example, in Fig. 2 we highlight four opportu -
nities of monetising data. Table 1 provides a more detailed analysis of 
the data requirements, necessary capabilities, potential risks and 
required safeguards. Moving from left to right along the continuum 
( Fig. 2 ), stratification and complexity of the data layers increase, adding 
value to potential products: 
1) Data as a product involves selling raw or processed data in an 
aggregated format. As an example, a producer organisation could 
analyse cocoa producers' data by region, production practices, 
productivity, etc. to create meaningful insights on cocoa key per -
formance indicators (KPIs). Similarly, extension services, non- 
governmental organisations (NGOs) and research institutions could 
use data insights to train models to recognise large-scale patterns or 
to target their efforts on farmers who would benefit from their ser -
vices ( Atik, 2022 ; Chamorro-Padial et al., 2025 ).
2) A data enhanced product adds additional value-enhancing informa -
tion and insights. For example, chocolate manufacturers could pro -
vide supplementary insights into their products by adding 
information about the origin of the cocoa beans and the production 
practices to their labels. This would enable them to accrue a pre -
mium price.
3) Data driven services use insights from multiple sources of data to 
develop a solution to address problems or render services. Data 
insight on production behaviour can help predict future behaviour of 
producers to develop a service or a product that solves production 
problems ( Bataineh et al., 2020 ). For instance, insurance providers 
could use data insights to identify high-risk areas and adjust pre -
miums accordingly. Investors looking for new land acquisitions 
could use insights to inform their decisions and prospective invest -
ment returns.
4) Data driven performance outcomes combine stages of the contin -
uum, e.g. cocoa production practices, consumer preferences and 
market trends to provide insights and improve performance out -
comes ( Lepenioti et al., 2020 ). Companies can use data to optimise 
products and resources, enhance customer experience and track 
long-term trends to anticipate market demands and refine their of -
ferings. Researchers and policymakers can use data insights to pre -
dict production and behavioural patterns and inform evidence-based 
decisions that drive productivity and sustainability ( Uyar et al., 
2024 ).
However, transforming data into a marketable commodity requires 
strong data capabilities, including data literacy and technological know- 
how. It also requires upfront investment in research and development, as 
well as digital technologies and safeguards to address potential risks 
( Bataineh et al., 2020 ; Markfort et al., 2022 ; O'Hara, 2020 ; Steinke et al., 
2024 ; Sweeney, 2002 ). In addition, measures to secure data from 
unauthorised access can cause substantial investment costs ( Gopal et al., 
2024 ). Table 1 presents an analysis of the minimum data required for 
each stage of the continuum, data capability needs, potential data 
buyers, risks and example safeguards.
3. Data protection
Scholars have warned that data can be (mis)used for surveillance, 
commercial exploitation, or even political influence ( Zuboff, 2020 ). As 
the People‘s Republic of China‘s president Xi Jinping allegedly said some 
years ago, “ whoever controls data will have the initiative ” ( Wei, 2021 ). 
Indeed, the EU, China, and the USA have created three major data 
Box 1
Distributional effects of compliance costs
We assume there is a market on which commodity producers are the suppliers and EU importers represent the demand side. Fig. 1 shows four 
different scenarios with differing assumptions on supply and demand elasticities. In each scenario, there is an initial market equilibrium ( P
0
, Q
0
). 
Adding the compliance cost shifts the supply curve upward ( S
0 
to S
1
, the shift is identical across all four scenarios of Fig. 1 ). This shift results in a 
new equilibrium with the demand curve, with a resulting decrease in quantity from Q
0 
to Q
1
, and diverging prices for suppliers ( P
1
producers
) and 
importers ( P
1
importers
). The magnitudes of the quantity and price effects depend on the supply and demand elasticities.
In scenarios A and D of Fig. 1 , the burden of the compliance cost is shared equally between producers and importers because the supply and 
demand elasticities are equal in absolute terms. In the other two scenarios, the burden is higher for the supply chain actors with the less elastic 
supply, i.e. in scenario B, the producers have a higher burden and in scenario C, importers bear the brunt.
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
3