--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 1
Word Range: 251 - 500
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 1]
Commentary
Dealing with the cost of EUDR compliance data and potential monetisation: 
Opportunities and risks
Lydia Afriyie-Kraft
*
, Astrid Zabel , Thomas Breu
Centre for Development and Environment, University of Bern, Mittelstrasse 43, 3012 Bern, Switzerland
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords 
EUDR
Compliance cost
Data monetisation
Data protection
Personal data
ABSTRACT
The European Union Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) introduces strict due diligence obligations, requiring EU 
operators to trace the origin of commodities and verify that they are deforestation-free. While existing research 
has largely focused on the design of the regulation and the challenges of its enforcement, little attention has been 
paid to the role of EUDR compliance data as both a cost factor and a potential asset. This paper analyses the costs 
of EUDR compliance data, paying particular attention to the distributional effects among market actors. It also 
explores the opportunities for monetising such data and the implications for producer privacy and data pro -
tection. Our findings suggest that compliance costs may not be evenly distributed across the supply chain, with 
producers in exporting countries being particularly vulnerable. This could create unintended market distortions, 
including price shifts and the supplanting of EUDR-relevant commodities by illicit alternatives. Notably, the 
monetisation of EUDR compliance data could offer producer countries new revenue streams. However, many 
EUDR-relevant commodities originate from countries with weak data protection frameworks, raising concerns 
about the potential misuse of producers' data. While data monetisation could help offset EUDR compliance costs, 
it must be accompanied by robust data protection laws. We recommend harmonising, strengthening and 
enforcing data protection laws in producer countries to ensure that the benefits of EUDR compliance are not 
achieved at the expense of the most vulnerable. Addressing these issues is critical to aligning the EUDR with 
broader objectives of sustainability, fairness and inclusive global value chains.
1. Introduction
Data and data processing with artificial intelligence are increasingly 
seen as tools to support sustainability transitions ( Aaronson and Leb -
lond, 2018 ; Galaz et al., 2021 ; Hassani et al., 2021 ; Vance et al., 2024 ). 
Several novel environmental Regulations enacted by the European 
Union (EU) rely on the provision of large amounts of data for compliance 
reporting, notably the EU Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products 
(EUDR), the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, the EU 
Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive and the EU taxonomy. 
Together, these environmental Regulations support the implementation 
of the European Green Deal to transform the EU into a more resource- 
efficient and competitive economy ( EUR-Lex, 2022 ).
These Regulations also aim to help businesses, investors and con -
sumers at the EU level to identify environmentally sustainable activities 
and consumption patterns. They require economic operators to collect 
data, process it and communicate comprehensive proof of compliance. 
Collecting and processing the required data is a costly administrative 
burden ( Hoos et al., 2025 ). Concerns about the added costs of collecting 
and processing the required information along complex supply chains 
have been raised, particularly in the context of the EUDR ( Sevilla et al., 
2025 ; Urugo et al., 2025 ; Zabel et al., 2025 ).
However, beyond the overall economic burden of data collection, 
little thought has been given to the distributional effects of compliance 
costs across supply chain actors and whether there could be opportu -
nities for monetising the aggregated data to cover the cost. A further key 
aspect that has not been sufficiently addressed in the context of inter -
national data-driven sustainability policies is data protection. This paper 
takes an economic and policy perspective to analyse how the EUDR 
compliance data requirements could potentially distort markets. It 
further explores opportunities and risks of monetising compliance data 
to offset the costs of collecting data for compliance.
The EUDR aims to prevent deforestation-related and illegally pro -
duced commodities from entering the EU market ( Regulation EU 2023/ 
1115 ). Commodities covered by the EUDR include cocoa, coffee, timber, 
rubber, palm oil, soy and cattle. To achieve the regulation's goals, Article 
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: lydia.afriyie@unibe.ch (L. Afriyie-Kraft). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Forest Policy and Economics
journal homep age: www.el sevier.com/l ocate/forpol
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.forpol.2026.103709
Received 29 August 2025; Received in revised form 8 January 2026; Accepted 11 January 2026  
Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
Available online 21 January 2026 
1389-9341/© 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.