--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C28
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 7
Word Range: 6864 - 7135
Word Count: 272
--------------------

[Page 7]
address corruption to gain recognition for audits and credibility of cer -
tification schemes anchored in sustainability standards and conformity 
assessments ( Castka et al., 2023 ; Hassani et al., 2021 ; Nygaard, 2023 ). 
This would cut duplicative costs for audits and facilitate trade with the 
EU as well as other trade partners ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ; Pham 
et al., 2025 ).
At the international level, regional bodies such as the African Union, 
ASEAN or sub-regional economic communities could increase efforts to 
develop new frameworks that support producer countries in developing 
consistent data governance regimes. First, regional bodies could estab -
lish a forum of data-protection authorities to coordinate enforcement 
and redress ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ). Thus, producers are not 
locked into bespoke buyer terms. Second, programs like the EU's Team 
Europe Initiative could upscale support for producers through measures 
such as training programs and joint procurement of traceability tools 
( Burni et al., 2022 ; Directorate-General for International Partnerships, 
2023 ; McDermott et al., 2025 ; Steinke et al., 2024 ). While participation 
in these initiatives is at the discretion of the producer countries [EUDR- 
Recital 29], broader awareness-raising by the EU is imperative to 
encourage wider coverage and ensure the fair and inclusive imple -
mentation of the Regulation ( Srivastava and Banerjee, 2025 ). Similarly, 
producer countries should collaborate with the EU for expanded and 
targeted technical and financial support through existing initiatives to 
develop robust traceability systems ( Muradian et al., 2025 ; Srivastava 
and Banerjee, 2025 ). For instance, together with the EU, producer 
countries could define clear requirements for the data and documents 
needed for each country, like the Country Conclusions and Country 
Profile, developed for some countries under the EUTR ( EUTR Expert 
Group, 2020 ; UNEP-WCMC, 2018 ). Finally, any data monetisation 
should be paired with benefit-sharing, producer consent and sovereign 
oversight to avoid undesirable outcomes in the growing field of data 
transfer ( Gani and Marshall, 2022 ). Specifically, benefit-sharing mech -
anisms could be executed by producer-controlled intermediaries e.g., 
cooperatives or data trusts, that set purpose-limited access and use 
conditions for shared datasets ( Delacroix and Lawrence, 2019 ; 
ˇ
Sestak 
and Copot, 2023 ; van der Burg et al., 2021 ). Likewise, buyers of data- 
enhanced claims or services can adopt revenue-sharing contracts with 
explicit minimum producer shares e.g., a certain percentage of ex- 
factory price or net surplus, and transparent escrowed payouts, consis -
tent with supply chain coordination literature and cooperative-centred 
models (
ˇ
Sestak and Copot, 2023 ; van der Burg et al., 2021 ).
5. Conclusions
The EUDR has been analysed through different lenses e.g. human 
right and environmental due diligence ( Solar et al., 2025 ) or radical 
transformation ( Verhaeghe and Ramcilovic-Suominen, 2024 ), and 
compared to other supply chain legislations and voluntary sustainability 
standards ( Cosimo et al., 2024 ; Partzsch, 2025 ). This article comple -
ments existing work by applying an economic lens to analyse the im -
plications of compliance data requirements. We investigated how the 
distribution of the administrative cost depends on the supply and de -
mand elasticities, outlined possibilities for data monetisation and 
assessed data protection issues. We derive the following four main 
conclusions:
Firstly, in our small comparative statics analysis, we found that the 
compliance cost may give rise to unintended price and quantity effects. 
Price effects play out especially if consumers are elastic, i.e. can quickly 
shift to a substitute product while producers are confronted with path 
dependencies. Quantity effects are of concern when producers' supply is 
elastic and the substitute is an illicit commodity. We recommend that EU 
and producer country governments should vigilantly observe for such 
undesirable shifts. Counter measures could include EU co-financing of 
compliance cost or programs to support the cultivation of legal substi -
tute commodities. However, it is important to note that this analysis was 
done from a forward-looking perspective and remains purely 
conceptual. Prior to the implementation of the EUDR, the findings of the 
comparative statics analysis obviously cannot be tested empirically.
Secondly, we discuss data monetisation as a potential way to offset 
producer costs of collecting EUDR compliance data. However, this 
pathway requires very careful consideration of the risks outlined. While 
selling data can be an opportunity, it is key that this business is con -
ducted under a robust data governance framework that was deliberated 
with producers, especially in contexts of still nascent and emerging 
national data laws and authorities.
Thirdly, empirical evidence on whether analytics materially offset 
compliance costs without creating privacy concerns ( Liu, 2022 ) or eq -
uity risks remains limited. We therefore recommend pilot projects with 
independent evaluation before data commercialisation. This will help to 
ensure that progress on the EUDR is consistent with fairness, inclusion 
and the broader aims of sustainable global value chains.
Fourthly, we argue that data justice is a relevant instrument with 
various dimensions: procedural, instrumental, distributive, rights-based 
and structural ( Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ). It can be defined as ‘fairness 
in the way people are made visible, represented and treated as a result of 
their production of digital data ’ ( Taylor, 2017 ) and revolves around 
giving people choices of being (in)visible, (dis)engaging with technol -
ogy as well as antidiscrimination. We emphasise data justice as a focal 
point for governance. Hence, integrating it into extension work and 
raising awareness on data rights and responsibilities among producers 
could advance fair use and equitable benefit sharing ( Ofulue and 
Benyoucef, 2024 ; Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ).
Future research could evaluate the benefits of traceability-based 
datafication of sustainability transition policies and the potential of 
jurisdictional approaches to reduce compliance complexity for small -
holders. Furthermore, research should explore privacy-preserving data 
technologies to strengthen protection and fairness in the use of big data 
( Tajabadi et al., 2024 ). Finally, producer countries, especially African 
countries, should see the EUDR as an opportunity to strengthen regional 
integration and to focus more on intra-continental trade, to prospec -
tively reduce dependency on foreign trade partners like the EU.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Lydia Afriyie-Kraft: Writing – original draft, Methodology, Inves -
tigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Astrid Zabel: Writing – 
original draft, Supervision, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization. 
Thomas Breu: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding 
acquisition.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal re -
lationships which may be considered as potential competing interests: 
Professor Thomas Breu reports financial support was provided by Velux 
Stiftung. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This research was supported by the Velux Stiftung Grant number 
2157.
Data availability 
No data was used for the research described in the article.
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
7