--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C20
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 6
Word Range: 4864 - 5113
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 6]
effective functioning and independence, and the international commit -
ment to the development of data protection [GDPR Art. 45(2)].
Fig. 3 shows that, in 2023, 84% of the EU's imports of EUDR-relevant 
commodities came from jurisdictions without adequate data protection 
under EU law ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ). Specifically, 70% of 
these jurisdictions have laws and/or authorities that are not deemed 
adequate, 4% have no laws and 10% have laws that are only partially 
adequate. Only 16% originated from adequate data protection regimes. 
In other words, for every € 1 sourced from adequate jurisdictions, about 
€ 5.25 come from non-adequate sources. This situation may increase 
risks regarding data privacy and -exploitation outside EU-adequate 
frameworks.
We assume that without adequate laws, the prospects for effective 
protection of producers' data for EUDR compliance are grim. This may 
open doors to potential data exploitation, commercialisation of essential 
sustainability information and unauthorised use of data that, for 
example, may inform those who pursue land grabbing intentions. To 
avoid these risks, while still recognising producers' cost burdens, we 
separate two categories for potential data monetisation:
Tier one is the core compliance data of the EUDR, e.g. geolocation 
and legality documentation, which serves a public-interest oversight 
function. This tier could enable regulatory oversight for monitoring, 
environmental protection and market entry and should not be sold. We 
propose monetisation of tier two data, which concerns value-added and 
anonymised analytics that employ aggregated benchmarking, advisory 
scores and optimisation tools derived from multiple data sources. 
Monetisation of tier two could be considered if safeguards such as those 
outlined in Table 1 are met.
4. Discussion
Above, we argued that the commercialisation of data collected for 
EUDR compliance could be an opportunity for producer countries. 
However, selling data may still be a bumpy rather than a smooth road to 
success. Initial efforts to sell data, like Microsoft's Azure DataMarket 
(launched 2010) and Kasabi (started in 2011, discontinued in 2012) 
failed due to low enterprise interest and difficulties in addressing 
diversified data requirements ( Johnston, 2022 ). Presently, the data 
market is gaining traction as revealed by a recent empirical study of 451 
data-driven organisations. More than a third of the respondents (38%), 
see data monetisation as one of their top five strategic priorities for the 
next three years ( Johnston, 2022 ).
Our analysis further revealed that a large volume of commodities 
regulated by the EUDR is exported by countries with weak governance 
arrangements on data protection ( CNIL, 2024a ). This is reason for 
concern because the EU's rigid one-size-fits-all compliance requirements 
are placing producers in a dilemma in which they are urged into 
providing data despite having concerns over the security of sensitive 
commercial and personal information ( Sevilla et al., 2025 ).
Viewed through this lens, the EUDR may be perpetuating power 
asymmetries by dictating trade rules to producers ( Samriddhi, 2025 ). 
Some authors describe this as the coloniality of mandating behavioural 
change, where the colonial legacy continues to influence the distribution 
of power and shapes decisions ( Collins et al., 2021 ; Kuhl et al., 2025 ). 
This situation as observed deepens inequalities and vulnerabilities as 
decision-making becomes external to the local context, leading to more 
global injustice ( Collins et al., 2021 ; Kuhl et al., 2025 ; Manahan et al., 
2024 ). Regulations such as the EUDR may thus fail to achieve their 
objectives and encourage redirection of non-compliant goods towards 
markets with lower sustainability requirements ( Sevilla et al., 2025 ).
We argue that producer countries and regional as well as subregional 
bodies could co-design a more robust multi-level ethical data gover -
nance and management regime for effective compliance with sustain -
ability requirements ( Liu, 2022 ; Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ; Steinke 
et al., 2024 ).
A multi-level approach could foster consistency, improve efficiency 
and avoid fragmentation across jurisdictions ( OECD, 2019 ). However, 
care must be taken to avoid static regulations and rather design an 
adaptive governance framework that is sufficiently flexible to cater for 
rapid developments especially in the artificial intelligence domain 
( Sayan and Bueechl, 2025 ).
Within such a framework, producer country governments could step 
up their efforts in harmonising and developing robust data protection 
regimes ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ). This could be about turning 
EUDR compliance from a high-cost obligation into a win-win situation, 
protecting producers‘rights and enhancing benefits ( Wilhelm, 2024 ) A 
priority will be to harmonise basic privacy rules, establishing consistent 
provisions for cross-border data flows and consenting to the access and 
use of data ( Babalola, 2024 ; Delacroix and Lawrence, 2019 ). A second 
approach is building shared compliance data spaces such as national 
registries for geolocation, like in the case of Brazil, to enable verification 
of compliance ( Jung et al., 2017 ; Sevilla et al., 2025 ) without central -
ising raw producer data or compromising confidentiality ( Dembani 
et al., 2025 ; McDermott et al., 2025 ). Third, producer countries should 
Fig. 3. Share of value of EUDR relevant imports from countries with (in)adequate data protection laws based on UN Comtrade data for the year 2023 and CNIL data, 
Source: ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ).
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
6