--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 2
Word Range: 1 - 2057
Word Count: 2,057
--------------------

[Page 1]
Commentary
Dealing with the cost of EUDR compliance data and potential monetisation: 
Opportunities and risks
Lydia Afriyie-Kraft
*
, Astrid Zabel , Thomas Breu
Centre for Development and Environment, University of Bern, Mittelstrasse 43, 3012 Bern, Switzerland
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords 
EUDR
Compliance cost
Data monetisation
Data protection
Personal data
ABSTRACT
The European Union Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) introduces strict due diligence obligations, requiring EU 
operators to trace the origin of commodities and verify that they are deforestation-free. While existing research 
has largely focused on the design of the regulation and the challenges of its enforcement, little attention has been 
paid to the role of EUDR compliance data as both a cost factor and a potential asset. This paper analyses the costs 
of EUDR compliance data, paying particular attention to the distributional effects among market actors. It also 
explores the opportunities for monetising such data and the implications for producer privacy and data pro -
tection. Our findings suggest that compliance costs may not be evenly distributed across the supply chain, with 
producers in exporting countries being particularly vulnerable. This could create unintended market distortions, 
including price shifts and the supplanting of EUDR-relevant commodities by illicit alternatives. Notably, the 
monetisation of EUDR compliance data could offer producer countries new revenue streams. However, many 
EUDR-relevant commodities originate from countries with weak data protection frameworks, raising concerns 
about the potential misuse of producers' data. While data monetisation could help offset EUDR compliance costs, 
it must be accompanied by robust data protection laws. We recommend harmonising, strengthening and 
enforcing data protection laws in producer countries to ensure that the benefits of EUDR compliance are not 
achieved at the expense of the most vulnerable. Addressing these issues is critical to aligning the EUDR with 
broader objectives of sustainability, fairness and inclusive global value chains.
1. Introduction
Data and data processing with artificial intelligence are increasingly 
seen as tools to support sustainability transitions ( Aaronson and Leb -
lond, 2018 ; Galaz et al., 2021 ; Hassani et al., 2021 ; Vance et al., 2024 ). 
Several novel environmental Regulations enacted by the European 
Union (EU) rely on the provision of large amounts of data for compliance 
reporting, notably the EU Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products 
(EUDR), the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, the EU 
Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive and the EU taxonomy. 
Together, these environmental Regulations support the implementation 
of the European Green Deal to transform the EU into a more resource- 
efficient and competitive economy ( EUR-Lex, 2022 ).
These Regulations also aim to help businesses, investors and con -
sumers at the EU level to identify environmentally sustainable activities 
and consumption patterns. They require economic operators to collect 
data, process it and communicate comprehensive proof of compliance. 
Collecting and processing the required data is a costly administrative 
burden ( Hoos et al., 2025 ). Concerns about the added costs of collecting 
and processing the required information along complex supply chains 
have been raised, particularly in the context of the EUDR ( Sevilla et al., 
2025 ; Urugo et al., 2025 ; Zabel et al., 2025 ).
However, beyond the overall economic burden of data collection, 
little thought has been given to the distributional effects of compliance 
costs across supply chain actors and whether there could be opportu -
nities for monetising the aggregated data to cover the cost. A further key 
aspect that has not been sufficiently addressed in the context of inter -
national data-driven sustainability policies is data protection. This paper 
takes an economic and policy perspective to analyse how the EUDR 
compliance data requirements could potentially distort markets. It 
further explores opportunities and risks of monetising compliance data 
to offset the costs of collecting data for compliance.
The EUDR aims to prevent deforestation-related and illegally pro -
duced commodities from entering the EU market ( Regulation EU 2023/ 
1115 ). Commodities covered by the EUDR include cocoa, coffee, timber, 
rubber, palm oil, soy and cattle. To achieve the regulation's goals, Article 
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: lydia.afriyie@unibe.ch (L. Afriyie-Kraft). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Forest Policy and Economics
journal homep age: www.el sevier.com/l ocate/forpol
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.forpol.2026.103709
Received 29 August 2025; Received in revised form 8 January 2026; Accepted 11 January 2026  
Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
Available online 21 January 2026 
1389-9341/© 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

[Page 2]
4 mandates operators (importers) to exercise due diligence before 
placing any relevant products on the EU market. As outlined in Articles 
8, 9 and 10 of the EUDR, due diligence includes collecting and assessing 
large amounts of data, e. g. geolocation data and documents proving 
legal production. This data must be collected at the beginning of each 
supply chain, processed by various actors and stored by EU operators for 
at least five years. Producers that do not pass on the relevant information 
to importers will lose access to the EU market ( Susilawati and Kanowski, 
2022 ).
Recent work and the Strategic Framework for International Coop -
eration Engagement of the European Commission characterise the 
EUDR's environmental and social aims. Accordingly, the EUDR is said to 
reduce commodity-driven deforestation, forest degradation, associated 
biodiversity and climate impacts and promote sustainable practices 
( Beltrame de Moura, 2025 ; European Commission, 2024 ; Srivastava and 
Banerjee, 2025 ). Furthermore, the EU Commission envisions the EUDR 
as a tool to fulfil the SDG commitment and the Paris Agreement. The 
Regulation is also seen as an opportunity to enhance responsible trade 
and boost opportunities for inclusion and equity among actors around 
the globe ( Beltrame de Moura, 2025 ; European Commission, 2024 ; 
Linden et al., 2025 ).
Although the Regulation is well intended, its normative goals do not 
fully reflect the complex socio-economic realities of producer countries. 
Instead, they are influenced by a combination of the convictions and 
interests of NGOs, EU institutions and multinational businesses, while 
initially ignoring the perspectives of governments and smallholders in 
producer countries ( Berning and Sotirov, 2024 ; van Noordwijk et al., 
2025 ). It also fails to clarify who should pay for data collection and how 
the costs should be shared between the relevant parties ( Muradian et al., 
2025 ). We argue that in the absence of initiatives addressing imple -
mentation barriers ( Azevedo-Ramos and Lima, 2024 ), the EUDR could 
be at risk of issues such as supplier substitution and market shifts, as was 
observed with its predecessor, the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) 
( European Commission, 2023 ; K ¨othke et al., 2023 ; K ¨othke, 2020 ; Schulz 
et al., 2026 ). This in turn may jeopardise rather than promote sustain -
ability goals ( Beltrame de Moura, 2025 ).
Besides environmental and social aims, other important normative 
goals of the Regulation include traceability and transparency. A sub -
stantial body of literature has examined the benefits of transparent 
supply chains ( Gardner et al., 2019 ; Schilling-Vacaflor and Gustafsson, 
2024 ), particularly the EUDR's potential contribution to sustainable 
forest management, environmental governance and deforestation free 
and legal commodity supply chains. These include the reduction of 
global deforestation and forest degradation, the protection of biodiver -
sity, the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions as well as the promotion 
of legality and traceability of supply chains ( Cosimo et al., 2024 ; Dur ´an, 
2025 ; Johnston et al., 2025 ; Muradian et al., 2025 ; Tonou ´ewa et al., 
2024 ).
Existing literature has identified traceability as the core mechanism 
for effective forest governance and sustainable forest management 
( Mensah et al., 2025 ; Muradian et al., 2025 ; Tonou ´ewa et al., 2024 ). 
Traceability systems are thus necessary for achieving the zero- 
deforestation supply chain commitments ( Fripp et al., 2023 ). They 
link products and actors to origin, enabling accountability and 
enforcement along global commodity chains ( Gardner et al., 2019 ). 
Traceability technologies promote transparent markets, efficient forest 
resource management and reputational confidence ( Lima et al., 2025 ; 
Stopfer et al., 2024 ).
Although Cosimo et al. (2024) and Muradian et al. (2025) identified 
gaps in several existing traceability systems, other studies report that 
traceability systems such as certification have reduced illegal logging, 
improved sustainable practices, forest governance, enforcement of legal 
requirements, accountability and market efficiency ( Elias, 2024 ; Men -
sah et al., 2025 ). Miniarti et al. (2018) reported that the Indonesian 
Timber Legality Verification System has increased legality and sustain -
ability compliance in supply chains in the country. In the Amazon, 
innovative traceability technologies such as isotopic analysis or big data 
are seen as promising solutions to legality verification and reducing 
illegal logging ( Lima et al., 2025 ). Certification, third party-verification 
systems and traceability through due diligence systems in Europe have 
contributed to compliance with the EUTR ( Gavrilut et al., 2016 ). Heil -
mayr and Lambin (2016) reported a reduction in deforestation when 
certification was combined with stakeholder collaboration in Chile. 
However, Muradian et al. (2025) reported that these systems have failed 
to stop deforestation.
Against this backdrop, the EU Joint Research Centre has developed 
the EU Observatory on Deforestation and Forest Degradation to support 
global forest monitoring and contribute to stopping deforestation. Spe -
cifically, the EU Observatory provides global forest data to help opera -
tors and authorities assess the risk of deforestation and degradation and 
support due diligence ( Vogt and Caudullo, 2022 ). Furthermore, multi -
lateral agencies and organisations like the International Trade Centre, 
Fraunhofer Institute for Material Flow and Logistics and the Food and 
Agriculture Organisation are developing platforms to support data 
collection for EUDR compliance ( FAO, 2024 ; Frauenhofer, 2023 ; Inter -
national Trade Center, I, 2024 ). However, these tools mainly focus on 
the deforestation aspect of the EUDR. Therefore, producers must still 
provide the legal information required, as outlined in the EUDR Guid -
ance documents ( European Commission, 2025a ). Moreover, producers 
require expertise to operate the tools, collect data and pass it on to their 
EU-based customers. Likewise, EU operators require expertise or third- 
party assistance to apply EUDR-compliant due diligence systems. All 
these come at a cost that must be borne by the supply chain actors.
Although essential to the Regulation's objectives, data requirements 
of the EUDR raise two under-examined issues. First, who pays for the 
cost of collecting data for compliance? Compliance costs for importers 
arise from setting up and applying a due diligence system, submitting 
due diligence statements and complying with public reporting and data 
retention obligations ( Rijk and Kuepper, 2024 ). In addition, producers 
face substantial costs when gathering information on legality and geo -
location ( Mabica et al., 2025 ). Second, what happens to the data 
collected for compliance?
Our study builds on these perspectives by analysing through an 
economic lens the implications of data requirements for compliance for 
producers and EU importers. It also offers insight into opportunities for 
monetising producers' data to offset costs of collecting data and to 
ensure that the Regulation supports not only environmental integrity, 
but also inclusive and sustainable trade.
2. Distribution of cost and data monetisation
How the costs are distributed can depend on supply and demand 
elasticities as well as political factors such as the actors' bargaining 
power or their capacity to strategically reposition within supply chains. 
This section focuses on the former and examines how elasticities influ -
ence the distribution of costs and explores the opportunities for data 
monetisation. The latter ranges from basic data sales to optimising 
market performance through complex data-driven services ( Ritala et al., 
2024 ). Ultimately, this analysis aims to provide insights into sustainable 
cost recovery strategies within EUDR-regulated supply chains. It is 
important to emphasise that producers are heterogeneous ( Susilawati 
et al., 2019 ; Susilawati and Kanowski, 2022 ; Zhunusova et al., 2022 ). 
Hence, compliance costs and capabilities may differ widely between 
small-scale producers, out-growers and large companies, the type of 
product and even the risk category of the country ( Directorate-General 
for Environment, 2025 ; van Noordwijk et al., 2025 ; Wolff and 
Schweinle, 2022 ). While our analysis remains at the conceptual level, 
further studies could empirically examine the actual cost implications 
and distributional effects among different actors once EUDR imple -
mentation begins.
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
2