--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-025-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-025
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 349
Word Count: 349
--------------------

Colorado breweries don’t just make some of the best beer in the country, they make some of the best beer in the world. That’s according to the 30th annual World Beer Cup, which announced winners Wednesday night during the Craft Brewers Conference in Philadelphia. Local beer purveyors made an impressive showing, collecting 26 medals this year, including four gold, up from 21 medals in 2025. Winners were selected from a pool of 8,166 beers submitted from breweries in 50 countries from across the globe, according to competition organizers at the Brewers Association. The winningest local outfit was Denver’s River North Brewery, which scored three medals: gold for Squirrels Just Want to Have Fun in the coffee beer category, silver for Espresso Hello Darkness in the coffee stout or porter category, and silver for Pumpkin Spice J. Marie in the pumpkin/squash/pumpkin spice category. Several other breweries won two medals including Cannonball Creek Brewing Co. in Golden, Bull & Bush Brewery in Denver, and New Belgium Brewing Co. in Fort Collins. Also of note, Colorado dominated the competition’s most competitive category, West Coast-style IPA. Out of 293 entries, gold was awarded to Cannon Ball Creek Brewing Co. and silver was awarded to Crystal Springs Brewing Co. in Louisville. While much of the haul was concentrated with companies on the Front Range, Durango’s Ska Brewing and the namesake Telluride Brewing Co. represented the Western Slope with gold and silver medals, respectively. (Coincidentally, those beers are now brewed at the same facility in Durango.) “Colorado continues to showcase why we are the state of craft beer. Taking both silver and gold in West Coast-Style IPA, the most competitive category in the competition, is a testament to our brewers’ skill and creativity,” Shawnee Adelson, executive director of the Colorado Brewers Guild, said in a statement. “And with nine beers earning World Beer Cup medals for at least the second time, it’s clear that Colorado doesn’t just make world-class beer — we make it consistently.” See the list of local World Cup winners below, or visit the World Beer Cup website for the full list.