--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C59
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 32
Word Range: 15527 - 15776
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 32]
96 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7. Disinfectants and similar substances used shall be used in such a way that they do not have any adverse effects
on the machinery, equipment, raw materials and dairy products kept at the dairy establishment. They shall be in clearly
identifiable containers bearing labels with instructions for their use and their use shall be followed by thorough rinsing of
such instruments and working equipment with potable water, unless supplier's instructions indicate otherwise.
II. PERSONAL HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS
1. The Food Business Operator shall employ those persons only in such an establishment to work directly with and
handle raw materials or dairy products if those persons have proved to the occupier's satisfaction by means of a medical
certificate, on recruitment, that there is no medical impediment to their employment in that capacity.
2. Persons working directly with and handling raw materials or dairy products shall maintain the highest standards
of personal cleanliness at all times. In particular they shall
(a) wear suitable, clean working clothes and headgear which completely encloses their hair;
(b) wash their hands at least each time work is resumed and whenever contamination of their hands has
occurred; e.g. after coughing / sneezing, visiting toilet, using telephone, smoking etc.
(c) cover wounds to the skin with a suitable waterproof dressing. No person with injury on hand, even with
dressing, shall be placed in any product making/handling section.
(d) avoid certain hand habits - e.g. scratching nose, running finger through hair, rubbing eyes, ears and
mouth, scratching beard, scratching parts of bodies etc. that are potentially hazardous when associated with
handling dairy products, and might lead to food contamination through the transfer of bacteria from the employee
to product during its preparation. When unavoidable, hands should be effectively washed before resuming work
after such actions
III. .SANITARY REQUIREMENTS FOR STORAGE
1. Immediately after procuring, raw milk shall be placed in a clean place, which is suitably equipped so as to prevent
any kind of contamination.
2. The cans/ containers made up of mild steel metal and plastic material used for storage and transportation of milk
and milk products shall not be allowed.
3. If raw milk is brought to the dairy plant by a producer or farmer then it shall be ensured that he brings it within four
hours of milking and it shall be cooled as soon as practicable to a temperature of 4ºC or lower and maintained at that
temperature until processed.
4. Where raw milk is collected daily from a producer, it shall be cooled immediately to a temperature of 4ºC to 6ºC or
lower and maintained at that temperature until processed;
5. When the pasteurization process is completed, pasteurized milk shall be cooled immediately to a temperature of
4ºC or lower.
6. Subject to Paragraph 7 below, any dairy product not intended to be stored at ambient temperature shall be cooled
as quickly as possible to the temperature established by the manufacturer of that product as suitable to ensure its
durability and thereafter stored at that temperature.
7. Where dairy products other than raw milk are stored under cooled conditions, their storage temperatures shall be
registered and the cooling rate shall be such that the products reach the required temperature as quickly as possible.
8. The maximum temperature at which pasteurized milk may be stored until it leaves the treatment establishment shall
not exceed 5ºC.
IV . WRAPPING AND PACKAGING
1. The wrapping and packaging of dairy products shall take place under satisfactory hygienic conditions and in
rooms provided for that purpose.
2. The manufacture of dairy products and packaging operations may take place in the same room if the following
conditions are satisfied: —
(a) The room shall be sufficiently large and equipped to ensure the hygiene of the operations;
(b) the wrapping and packaging shall have been brought to the treatment or processing establishment in
protective cover in which they were placed immediately after manufacture and which protects the wrapping or