--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 27 to Page 28
Word Range: 10852 - 12121
Word Count: 1,270
--------------------

[Page 27]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 91
4.5 Drainage and waste disposal
4.5.1 Food waste and other waste materials shall be removed periodically from the place where food is being
handled or cooked or manufactured to avoid building up. A refuse bin of adequate size with a proper cover
preferably one which need not be touched for opening shall be provided in the premises for collection of waste
material. This shall be emptied and washed daily with a disinfectant and dried before next use.
4.5.2 The disposal of sewage and effluents (solid, liquid and gas) shall be in conformity with requirements of
Factory / Environment Pollution Control Board. Adequate drainage, waste disposal systems and facilities shall be
provided and they shall be designed and constructed in such manner so that the risk of contaminating food or the
potable water supply is eliminated.
4.5.3 Waste storage shall be located in such manner that it does not contaminate the food process, storage
areas, the environment inside and outside the food establishment and waste shall be kept in covered containers and
shall be removed at regular intervals.
4.5.4 Periodic disposal of the refuse / waste should be made compulsory. No waste shall be kept open inside
the premise and shall be disposed of in an appropriate manner as per local rules and regulations including those for
plastics and other non environment friendly materials.
4.6 Personnel facilities and toilets
4.6.1 Personnel facilities shall include those for proper washing and drying of hands before touching food
materials including wash basins and a supply of hot and /or cold water as appropriate; separate lavatories, of
appropriate hygienic design, for males and females separately; and changing facilities for personnel and such
facilities shall be suitably located so that they do not open directly into food processing, handling or storage areas.
4.6.2 Number of toilets should be adequate depending on the number of employees (male /female) in the
establishment and they should be made aware of the cleanliness requirement while handling food.
4.6.3 Rest and refreshments rooms shall be separate from food process and service areas and these areas shall
not lead directly to food production, service and storage areas.
4.6.4 A display board mentioning do's & don'ts for the workers shall be put up inside at a prominent place in
the premise in English or in local language for everyone's understanding.
4.7 Air quality and ventilation
Ventilation systems natural and /or mechanical including air filters, exhaust fans, wherever required, shall be
designed and constructed so that air does not flow from contaminated areas to clean areas.
4.8 Lighting
Natural or artificial lighting shall be provided to the food establishment, to enable the employees/workers to
operate in a hygienic manner. Lighting fixtures must wherever appropriate, be protected to ensure that food is not
contaminated by breakages of electrical fittings.
5 FOOD OPERATIONS AND CONTROLS
5.1 Procurement of raw materials
5.1.1 No raw material or ingredient thereof shall be accepted by an establishment if it is known to contain
parasites, undesirable micro-organisms, pesticides, veterinary drugs or toxic items, decomposed or extraneous
substances, which would not be reduced to an acceptable level by normal sorting and/or processing.
5.1.2 All raw materials, food additives and ingredients, wherever applicable, shall conform to all the Regulations
and standards laid down under the Act.
5.1.3 Records of raw materials, food additives and ingredients as well as their source of procurement shall be
maintained in a register for inspection.
5.1.4 All raw materials should be checked & cleaned physically thoroughly.
5.1.5 Raw materials should be purchased in quantities that correspond to storage/ preservation capacity.
5.1.6 Packaged raw material must be checked for 'expiry date'/ 'best before'/ 'use by' date, packaging integrity
and storage conditions.

[Page 28]
92 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
5.1.7 Receiving temperature of potentially high risk food should be at or below 5 0C
5.1.8 Receiving temperature of frozen food should be -18 0C or below.
5.2 Storage of raw materials and food
5.2.1 Food storage facilities shall be designed and constructed to enable food to be effectively protected from
contamination during storage; permit adequate maintenance and cleaning, to avoid pest access and accumulation.
5.2.2 Cold Storage facility, wherever required, shall be provided to raw, processed / packed food according to
the type and requirement.
5.2.3 Segregation shall be provided for the storage of raw, processed, rejected, recalled or returned materials
or products which will be distinguishably marked and secured. Raw materials and food shall be stored in separate
areas from printed packaging materials, stationary, hardware and cleaning materials / chemicals.
5.2.4 Raw food, particularly meat, poultry and seafood products shall be cold stored separately from the area
of work-in-progress, processed, cooked and packaged products. The conditions of storage in terms of temperature
and humidity requisite for enhancing the shelf life of the respective food materials / products shall be maintained.
5.2.5 Storage of raw materials, ingredients, work-in-progress and processed / cooked or packaged food
products shall be subject to FIFO (First in, First Out), FEFO (First Expire First Out) stock rotation system as
applicable.
5.2.6 Containers made of non-toxic materials shall be provided for storage of raw materials, work-in-progress
and finished / ready to serve products. The food materials shall be stored on racks / pallets such that they are
reasonably well above the floor level and away from the wall so as to facilitate effective cleaning and prevent
harbouring of any pests, insects or rodents.
5.3 Food Processing / Preparation, Packaging and Distribution / Service
5.3.1.Time and temperature control
5.3.1.1 The Food Business shall develop and maintain the systems to ensure that time and temperature are
controlled effectively where it is critical to the safety and suitability of food. Such control shall include time and
temperature of receiving, processing, cooking, cooling, storage, packaging, distribution and food service upto the
consumer, as applicable.
5.3.1.2 Whenever frozen food / raw materials are being used / handled / transported, proper care should be
taken so that defrosted / thawed material are not stored back after opening for future use.
5.3.1.3 If thawing is required then only required portion of the food should be thawed at a time.
5.3.1.4 Wherever cooking is done on open fire, proper outlets for smoke/steam etc. like chimney, exhaust fan
etc. shall be provided.
5.4 Food Packaging
5.4.1 Packaging materials shall provide protection for all food products to prevent contamination, damage and shall
accommodate required labelling as laid down under the FSS Act & the Regulations there under.
5.4.2 For primary packaging (i.e packaging in which the food or ingredient or additive comes in direct contact with
the packaging material), only Food grade packaging materials are to be used . For packaging materials like aluminium
plastic and tin, the standards to be followed are as mentioned under the FSS Regulations and rules framed there under.
5.4.3 Packaging materials or gases where used, shall be non-toxic and shall not pose a threat to the safety and
suitability of food under the specified conditions of storage and use.
5.5 Food Distribution / Service
5.5.1 All critical links in the supply chain need to be identified and provided for to minimize food spoilage during
transportation. Processed / packaged and / or ready-to-eat food shall be protected as per the required storage conditions
during transportation and / or service.
5.5.2 Temperatures and humidity which are necessary for sustaining food safety and quality shall be maintained.
The conveyances and /or containers shall be designed, constructed and maintained in such manner that they can
effectively maintain the requisite temperature, humidity, atmosphere and other conditions necessary to protect food