--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 1
Word Range: 1 - 250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 1]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 65
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE
(Food Safety and Standards Authority of India)
Notification
                                                      New Delhi, dated the 1st August, 2011
F.No. 2-15015/30/2010 Whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (o) of sub section (2) of section 92 read with
section 31 of  Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (34 of 2006) the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India
proposes to make Food Safety and Standards Regulations in so far as they relates to Food Safety and Standards(Licensing
and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulations, 2011, and;
 Whereas these draft Regulations were published in consolidated form at pages 1 to 776 in the Gazette of India
Extraordinary Part III – Sec. 4 dated 20
th  October 2010 inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be
affected thereby before the expiry of the period of thirty days from the date on which the copies of the Gazette containing
the said notification were made available to the public;
And whereas the copies of the Gazette were made available to the public on the 21
st  October 2010;
And whereas objections and suggestions received from the stakeholders within the specified period on the said
draft Regulations have been considered and finalized by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India.
Now therefore, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India hereby makes the following Regulations, namely,-
FOOD SAFETY AND STANDARDS (LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF FOOD BUSINESSES),
REGULA TIONS 2011
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL
1.1: Short title and commencement-
1.1.1: These regulations may be called the Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses)
Regulations, 2011.
1.1.2: These regulations shall come into force on or after 5th August, 2011
1.2: Definitions-
1.2.1: In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires:
1. “Central Licensing Authority” means Designated Officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of the
Food Safety and Standards Authority of India in his capacity of Food Safety Commissioner.
2. “District” means a revenue district in state and UTs provided that the Commisioner of Food Safety may, for
the purpose of this Act declare any local area as a district on the basis of:
z Concentration of specific category of food businesses which may need special attention.
z Risk assessment carried out by the Authority from time to time.
z Any other specific regulatory requirements.
3. “Licensing Authority” means the Designated Officer appointed under section 36 (i) of the Act by the
Commissioner of Food Safety of the state or by the Chief Executive Officer of the Food Safety and Standards
Authority of India in his capacity of Food Safety Commissioner ;
4. “Petty Food Manufacturer” means any food manufacturer, who
(a) manufactures or sells any article of food himself or a petty retailer, hawker, itinerant vendor or
temporary stall holder; or distributes foods including in any religious or social gathering except a caterer;
or