--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C116
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 54
Word Range: 30665 - 31042
Word Count: 378
--------------------

[Page 54]
118 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(2) For prolonged storage, foods should be stored in refrigerators or kept for hot holding at or above 60°C.
(3) No water should be added after cooking/reheating/boiling.
7. Fried Foods
(1) Good quality / branded oils/fats should be used for food preparation, frying etc.
(2) Use packaged oil only.
(3) Use of oils with high trans fats (like vanaspati) should be avoided as far as possible.
(4) Re-heating and reuse of oil should be avoided as far as possible. Avoid using leftover oil wherever
possible.
8. Adding ingredients after cooking
(1) Ingredients added to the cooked food should be thoroughly washed/ cleaned.
(2) After cooking or post cooked mixing, the food should be used immediately.
(3) Garnishes etc., if added, should be prepared using fresh, thoroughly washed and freshly cut vegetables
and used immediately.
Reuse of cooked food is not recommended.
z Potentially hazardous foods and high risk foods such as hollandaise sauce, refried beans, scrambled
eggs and cut fruits are to be discarded.
z All food at banquet setting that has been on display are to be discarded.
z Food kept at more than 60°C during service may be reused, only by following the procedure indicated
below:
z never mix leftover with fresh product. If in doubt, throw out the product.
z Reheat leftover food temperature to more than74°C
9. Thawing of Frozen Products.
Thawing-In Refrigerator
z Items being thawed should be labelled with defrost date to indicate the beginning of 2nd shelf life.
z Thaw food at 5°C or less.
z Temperature controlled thawing is recommended for meat, poultry and fish.
z Any other means of thawing apart from running water and microwave is not allowed.
Thawing In Running Water
Items being thawed should be labelled with date and time.
z Thawing in running water advisable shellfish and seafood.
z Thawing in running water should not exceed 90 minutes.
z Ensure air break between tap and water.
z Use sanitized food grade container.
z Sink must not be used for other purposes during thawing
z After thawing, product must be used within 12 hours.
z Cold running water (from mains) should be at 15°C or less
[F.No. 2-15015/30/2010]
V .N. GAUR,
Chief Executive Officer