--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C111
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 51
Word Range: 29301 - 29593
Word Count: 293
--------------------

[Page 51]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 115
3. Cooking
(a) The preparation/ processing/ cooking should be adequate to eliminate and reduce hazards to an acceptable
level which might have been introduced at the raw food level.
(b) The preparation/ processing/ cooking methods should ensure that the foods are not re- contaminated.
(c) The preparation/ processing/ cooking of veg. & non-veg. products should be segregated.
(d) Whenever cooking or reheating of food is done, it should be hot all the way through, It is especially
important to make sure that food is cooked thoroughly.
(e) Re-use of cooking oil should be avoided.
(f) Food hot held at 60°c and cooled at 21°c within 2 hrs or cooled to 5°c in 4 hours and thereafter refrigerated
might be reheated.
(g) Reheated food must reach a minimum internal temperature of 74°C.When using microwave to reheat, food
must reach a minimum temperature of 74°C and stayed covered for 5 mins to allow the temperature to equilibrate.
(h) Reheat food quickly in ovens, steamer, microwave oven and/or on top of range in a steam kettle.
(i) Never reheat food on a steam table, in a bain marie, in a bun drawer and/or under a heat lamp.
(j) In case of reheating of oil use maximum three times to avoid the formation of trans fat. It is ideal to use once
if possible.
4. Chilling
z Semi cooked or cooked dishes and other ready-to-eat foods such as prepared salads and desserts having
short shelf life should not be left standing at room temperature.
z Chilled food intended for consumption should be cold enough.
z Food items that need to be chilled should be put straight away into the fridge.
z Cooked food should be cooled as quickly as possible and then put it in the fridge.
z Chilled food should be processed in the shortest time possible.
z Fridge and display units should be cold enough and as per requirement.
z In practice, fridge should be set at 5?C to make sure that food is kept in chilled condition. Also, fridge and
display units should be maintained in good working condition to avoid food spoilage and contamination.
5. Cross-contamination
Following should be done to avoid cross - contamination.
z Raw food/ meat/poultry and ready-to-eat foods should be kept separate at all times.
z Hands should be thoroughly washed after touching raw meat/poultry.
z Work surfaces, chopping boards and equipments should be thoroughly cleaned before the preparing of
food starts and after it has been used.
z Separate chopping boards and knives for raw fruit/ vegetables/ meat/poultry and ready-to-eat food
should be used.
z Raw meat/poultry below ready-to-eat food should be kept in the fridge.
z Separate fridge for raw meat/poultry should be kept.
z Staff should be made aware how to avoid cross-contamination.
III. PERSONAL HYGIENE
1. High standards of personal hygiene should be maintained.
2. All employees handling food should wash their hands properly:
z before preparing food
z after touching raw food or materials, specially meat/poultry or eggs