--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C107
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 49
Word Range: 28262 - 28550
Word Count: 289
--------------------

[Page 49]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 113
10. Other Requirements
10.01 The prepared meat shall be packed in waxed paper and then placed in polyethylene bags or packed directly in
bags made of food grade plastics.
10.02 Failure to comply with any of these instructions may entail legal action against the defaulters, and even result
in cancellation of license by the appropriate authority of the concerned Panchayats/Municipalities/Corporation.
10.03 No Objection Certificate from law and order point of view to be obtained from police department or the
concerned Panchayats/Municipalities/Corporation before grant of license for buffalo meat and pork shop.
10.04 The concerned Panchayats/Municipalities responsible for local administration in the country shall appoint
qualified Veterinary staff for the meat inspection (Ante mortem and Post mortem inspection) or if regular staff cannot be
made available or deployed for the purpose shall make contractual arrangements for availing the services of qualified
V eterinary staff for meat inspection available with the Animal Husbandry Depts. of the concerned state/UT in the country.
10.05 Retail meat shop license shall be granted subject to fulfillment of all the above technical and administrative
instructions in relation to the trade.
Part - V
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators
engaged in catering / food service establishments
In addition to Part-II the Catering/ food Service establishment in which food is being handled, processed,
manufactured, stored, distributed and ultimately sold to the customers and the persons handling them should conform to
the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures and other standard as specified below.
It includes premises where public is admitted for repose or for consumption of any food or drink or any place where
cooked food is sold or prepared for sale. It includes:
(a) Eating Houses
(b) Restaurants & Hotels
(c) Snack Bars,
(d) Canteens (Schools, Colleges, Office, Institutions)
(e) Food Service at religious places
(f) Neighbourhood Tiffin Services / dabba walas
(g) Rail and airline catering
(h) Hospital catering
I. GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICES FOR WHOLE PREMISE
I. Food Preparation Areas
The following rules apply to rooms where food is prepared. There will be no smoke nuisance in the food
preparation area. Wherever cooking or frying of any kind is being done, a chimney having appropriate suction
capacity as per the size of the kitchen has to be installed prior to start of business.
II . Hand washing facilities and toilets
(1) Adequate number of wash-hand basins made of porcelain/stainless steel shall be provided along with
soap to wash hands, with hot and cold running water, and materials for cleaning hands and drying them hygienically.
Clean and dry towels shall be kept for the use of customers.
(2) Separate sinks must be provided, where necessary, for washing raw food and cleaning equipment.
(3) Sinks with a draining board, detergent and hot water shall be provided to ensure proper cleaning of
utensils, crockery and cutlery there will be a separate place for washing pots and pains.
2. Changing facilities:
Facilities for staff to change their clothes, where necessary must be provided.