--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C99
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 46
Word Range: 26240 - 26511
Word Count: 272
--------------------

[Page 46]
110 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7.3 Injuries - Any person who is cut or injured should discontinue working with meat and until he is suitably
bandaged should not be engaged in any meat processing unit in the preparation, handling, packing or transportation of
meat. No person working in any meat processing unit should wear exposed bandage unless the bandage is completely
protected by a water proof covering which is conspicuous in colour and is of such a nature that it cannot become
accidentally detached. first aid facilities should be provided for this purpose.
7.4 Washing of Hands : Every person engaged in a meat handling area should wash his hands frequently and
thoroughly with a suitable hand cleaning preparation under running potable water while on duty. Hands should always be
washed before commencing work, immediately after using the toilets, after handling contaminated material and whenever
else necessary. After handling diseased or suspect materials hands should be washed and disinfected immediately.
Notices requiring hand-washing should be displayed.
8. Personnel Cleanliness:
8.1 Every person engaged in an area in meat processing unit where meat is handled should maintain a high degree
of personnel cleanliness while on duty, and should at all times while so engaged wear suitable protective clothing
including head covering and foot wear, all of which should be washed unless designed to be disposed and which should
be maintained in a clean condition consistent with the nature of the work in which the person is engaged.
8.2 Aprons and similar items should not be washed on the floor; and
8.3 Such items should not be left on equipment in the working area.
8.4 Personal Behavior : Any behavior which can potentially contaminate the meat such as eating, use of tobacco,
chewing, spitting, should be prohibited in any part of meat processing unit used for the preparation, handling, packaging
or transportation of meat.
8.5 Visitors: Every person who visits an area in any meat processing unit where meat is handled should wear clean
protective clothing and head cover.
b) Sanitary &Hygienic Requirements for the Retail Meat Shops
For ensuring the hygiene and safety of meat being sold at retail meat shops, the following requirements
should be followed under the supervision of the qualified Veterinary staff.
1. Location of Meat Shop
1. The meat shop / sale outlet should preferably be a unit of meat market located away from Vegetable, fish or other
food markets and shall be free from undesirable odour, smoke, dust or other contaminants. Wherever a meat market is not
available, individual meat shop can be set up considering the above factors, which have a direct bearing on the hygiene
conditions of the premises and health of consumers.
(a) The minimum distance between the licensed meat shop and any place of worship should not be less than
50 meters;
(b) The condition of 100 meters distance will apply in case the premises situated directly opposite to the entry
gate of religious place of any community.
2. All the meat shops located in the vicinity of religious places shall be fitted with black glass doors, which must be
kept closed all times except in case of entry or exit. It must be the responsibility of the meat shop owners to maintain a high
standard of hygiene not only inside the shops, but also in the way leading to the shops road pavements or other adjoining
place, particularly for insanitary materials originating from the meat business for example, blood, part of offal, meat scraps
etc.
2. Size of Meat Shops
2.1 Considering the constraints of commercial space in residential areas in concerned Panchayats / Municipalities
the size of meat shops may vary according to the size of business and activities being carried out there in the meat shops.
2.2 The height of shop in all above categories of meat shops should be not less than 3 meters, while in case of air-
conditioned meat shops, it should not be less than 2.5 meters.
3. Premises
3.01 The premises shall be structurally sound. The walls up to the height of minimum 5 feet from the floor level shall
be made of impervious concrete material (e.g. glazed tiles or hygienic panels, etc.) for easy washing and cleaning purposes.