--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C103
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 48
Word Range: 27262 - 27511
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 48]
112 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7.02 The pest control measures adopted by the owner of shop should be kept as a record in the premises to be
shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities responsible for local administration/Corporation at the
time of inspection.
7.03 Chlorinated hydrocarbons, organo-phosphorus compounds and synthetic perithroids, rodenticides etc should
neither be used as pesticide nor shall be stored at the meat shop.
7.04 No live animals or birds should be allowed inside or adjacent to the meat shops.
8. Personnel Hygiene
8.01. Every person employed for meat handling at the meat shop shall be medically examined annually by a authorized
registered medical practitioner and examination shall include examination of sputum and x-ray of the chest for tuberculosis.
The medical examination shall also include examination of stool for protozoal and helminthic infestations for those
parasites, which are transmitted by ingestion, and also for the presence of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, Salmonella,
Shigella spieces and Vibrio cholera.
8.02. A certificate / records of medical fitness of all workers handling meat should be kept as a record in the premises
to be shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities responsible for local administration / Corporation
at the time of inspection.
8.03. No worker suspected to be suffering from fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, typhoid, dysentery or boils, cuts and
sores and ulcers (however small) shall be permitted to work in the meat shops.
8.04 All the workers of the meat shop shall keep their finger nails short and clean and wash their hands with soap or
detergent and hot water before commencement of work and after each absence, especially after using sanitary conveniences.
8.05. Eating, spitting, nose cleaning or the use of tobacco in any form or chewing betel leaves shall be prohibited
within the premises of meat shop processing, packing and storage area of the unit. "No smoking "and "No Spitting
"boards shall be prominently displayed in the shop.
9. Sanitary Practices
9.01 The chopping block should be sanitized daily by covering its top with sea-salt, after cleaning it with hot
water at close of business activity.
9.02 The floor should be washed with appropriate disinfectant / detergent / sanitizer at the start and close of
the business each working day.
9.03 There should be high standard of cleanliness and tidiness in the working area of shop with no organic or
other material lying on the floor.
9.04 The refrigerated / freezing cabinet should be regularly cleaned and well maintained.
9.05 Slaughtering of animal / birds inside the shop premises should be strictly prohibited.
9.06 The carcasses shall not be allowed to be covered with wet-clothes.
9.07 Wholesome meat obtained from the authorized slaughter house shall only be sold at the meat shops and
a record thereof shall be kept in the premises to be shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities
responsible for local administration Corporation at the time of inspection.
9.08 Waste bins should be emptied, transported for disposal as per the arrangements made by the concerned
Panchayats / Municipalities and waste bin / dhalau ( burial pits) shall be treated daily with a disinfectant.
9.09 The premises shall not be used for residential purposes nor it shall communicate with any residential
quarter. No personal belonging like clothing, bedding, shoes etc. shall be kept in the premises. Only dressed
carcasses of clean meat shall be stored at the premises.
9.10 Hides, skins, hoofs, heads and unclean gut will not be allowed to be stored in the premises at any time.
9.11 The chopping instruments should be cleaned with hot water at a temperature of 82 degree C.
9.12 The preparation of food of any type inside the meat sale outlet should be strictly prohibited.
9.13 The meat obtained from unauthorized sources or unstamped meat is liable to be confiscated and destroyed.
9.14 Waste of the meat shop to be disposed of packed in heavy polythene bags in dhalaos (burial pits).