--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 41 to Page 42
Word Range: 20005 - 21377
Word Count: 1,373
--------------------

[Page 41]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 105
(8) All animals declared as "condemned" on ante-mortem inspection shall be marked as "condemned" and killed if
not already dead. Such carcasses shall not be taken into the factory to be slaughtered or dressed, nor shall they be
conveyed into any department of the factory used for edible products.
8. Post-mortem inspection—
1. A careful and detailed post-mortem examination and inspection of the carcasses and parts thereof of all animals
slaughtered shall be made soon after slaughter. All organs and parts of the carcasses and blood to be used in the
preparation of meat food products shall be held in such a manner as to preserve their identity till the completion of the
post-mortem inspection so that they can be identified in the event of the carcasses being condemned.
2. Every carcass including all detached parts and organs thereof which show evidence of any condition which will
render the meat or any part or organ unfit for human consumption and which for that reason may require subsequent
inspection, shall be retained by the Qualified Veterinary Doctor. The identity of such carcass including the detached parts
and organs thereof shall be maintained until the final inspection is completed. Retained carcasses, detached parts and
organs thereof shall be maintained until the final inspection is completed. Retained carcasses, detached parts and organs
thereof shall in no case be washed, trimmed or mutilated in any manner unless otherwise authorized by the Qualified
V eterinary Doctor.
3. No air shall be blown by mouth into the tissues of any carcass or part of a carcass.
4. Every carcass or part thereof which has been found to be unfit for human consumption shall be marked by the
Qualified V eterinary Doctor as "Inspected and condemned".
5. All such condemned carcasses, parts and organs thereof shall remain in the custody of the Qualified Veterinary
Doctor pending disposal at or before the close of the day on which they are marked "Inspected and condemned" in
accordance with sub-paragraphs (11),(12) and (13) below.
6. Carcasses, parts and the organs thereof found to be sound, wholesome, healthful and fit for human consumption
shall be marked as "Inspected and passed".
7. Carcasses found affected with anthrax before evisceration shall not be eviscerated but condemned and disposed
of immediately in accordance with sub-paragraph (12) below. Any part of a carcass contaminated with anthrax infected
material through contact with soiled instruments or otherwise shall be immediately condemned and disposed of as
provided in sub-paragraph (12) below.
8. The portion of the slaughtering department including equipment, employees' boots and aprons, etc., contaminated
by contact with anthrax material shall be cleaned and thoroughly disinfected immediately.
9. When on inspection only a portion of a carcass on account of slight bruises is decided to be condemned, either
the bruised portion shall be removed immediately and disposed of in accordance with sub-paragraph (13) below or the
carcass shall be retained and kept till such time it is chilled and the bruised portion removed and disposed of as provided
above.
10. Post-mortem inspection shall be a detailed one and shall cover all parts of the carcass, the viscera, lymph glands
and all organs and glands.
11. The post-mortem inspection shall be in accordance with the general rules laid down for such inspection in public
slaughter houses under the control of local bodies besides special instructions that may be issued from time to time by the
licensing authority.
12. All condemned carcasses, organs or parts thereof shall be completely destroyed in the presence of the Qualified
Veterinary Doctor by incineration or denatured, after being slashed freely with a knife, with crude carbolic acid, cresylic-
disinfectant or any other prescribed agent unless such carcasses, organs or parts thereof are sterilized for the preparation
of bone-cum-meat meal before leaving the slaughter house premises, subject to sub-paragraph (13) below.
13. Carcasses, organs or parts thereof condemned on account of anthrax shall be disposed of either by (i) complete
incineration or (ii) thorough denaturing with prescribed denaturant in the manner prescribed in the foregoing paragraphs
and also in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the local authority.
14. Destruction of condemned carcasses, organs or parts thereof shall be carried out under the direct supervision of
the Qualified V eterinary Doctor.
15. If in the opinion of the Qualified Veterinary Doctor a carcass, organ or part thereof is to be held back for further
detailed examination, the carcass, organ or part concerned shall not be released till the examination in detail is completed
by the Qualified V eterinary Doctor and it is declared thereafter by him as fit. When it is to be detained for detailed

[Page 42]
106 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
examination, the carcass, organ or part thereof shall be marked as "Held". If on subsequent inspection, the carcass, organ
or part thereof is found to be unwholesome and unfit for human food, the Qualified Veterinary Doctor shall mark such a
carcass, organ or part thereof as "condemned" and shall dispose it of as described in the foregoing paragraphs.
a. Sanitary and Hygienic Requirements for Meat processing units
Following Sanitary and Hygienic requirements shall be satisfied by the meat processing unit.
1. Location:
1.1 Meat processing unit should be located in areas not subjected to regular and frequent flooding and
free from objectionable odours, smoke dust and other contaminants;
1.2 Roadways and areas serving the meat processing unit which are within its boundaries or in its
immediate vicinity should have a hard paved surface suitable for wheeled traffic. There should be adequate
drainage and provision for cleaning;
1.3 Where appropriate, meat processing unit should be so designed that access can be controlled.
2. Building and Facilities:
2.1 The meat processing unit should provide adequate working space for the satisfactory performance
of all operations.
2.2 The construction should be sound and ensure adequate ventilation, good natural or artificial lighting
and easy cleaning.
2.3 The meat processing unit should be laid out and equipped so as to facilitate proper supervision of
meat hygiene including performance of inspection and control;
2.4 The meat processing unit should be of such construction as to protect against the entrance and
harbouring of insects, birds, rodents or other vermin as well as the entry of environmental contaminants such
as smoke, dust etc.
2.5 Buildings and facilities should be designed to provide separation by partition, location or other
effective means, between those operations which may cause cross-contamination;
2.6 Meat processing unit should be laid out and equipped so as to ensure, that edible meat does not
come into contact with floors, walls or other fixed structures, except those which are specifically designed for
contact with meat;
2.7 The construction and lay out of any chilling room, freezing room, freezer store or freezer should
satisfy the requirements of these rules;
2.8 In meat handling areas :
— Floors should be of waterproof, non-absorbent, washable non-slippery and made of nontoxic
materials, without crevices and should be easy to clean and slope sufficiently for liquids to drain
to trapped outlets;
— Walls should be of waterproof, non-absorbent, washable and nontoxic materials and should be
light coloured. Up to a height of at least 1.5 metres, they should be smooth and without crevices,
and should be easy to clean , space between walls and ceilings should be sealed and covered to
facilitate cleaning;
—  Ceilings should be so designed, constructed and finished as to prevent any accumulation of dirt
and minimize condensation, mould development and flaking and should be easy to clean;
— Windows and other openings should be so constructed as to avoid accumulation of dirt and
those which open should be fitted with insect screen. Screens should be easily movable for
cleaning and kept in good repair. Internal window sills, if present, should be sloped to prevent use
as shelves;
— Doors should have smooth, non-absorbent surfaces and where appropriate, be self-closing and
close fitting; and
— Stairs, lift cages and auxiliary structures such as platforms, ladders, chutes, should be so situated
and constructed as not to cause contamination of meat. They should be capable of being effectively
cleaned. Chutes should be constructed with inspection and cleaning hatches;