--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 39 to Page 40
Word Range: 18725 - 20004
Word Count: 1,280
--------------------

[Page 39]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 103
(2) V ocalization is an indicator of animal discomfort and need to be watched for.
(3) Use of electric pods for moving animal should be discouraged. Movement of animals can be managed by
grouping, use of plastic wrapped sticks etc.
(4) Pen stocking density should be monitored. All animals should have room to lie down simultaneously. The
condition of animals arriving for slaughter should be closely monitored so that injured, diseased animals are not
slaughtered.
(5) High pitch sounds such as whistling and yelling should be avoided to spare distress to animals.
b. The following factors have been identified as critical to animal welfare:
(a) supervision and training of employees.
(b) Designing of animal transport cart and unloading bay.
(c) Proper construction of holding/resting pen, stunning box, maintenance of stunning equipment,
restraining systems, gates and other animal handling equipment.
(d) Avoiding distractions that make animals refuse to move.
(e) Monitoring the condition of animals arriving at the plant.
(f) Proper design of equipment in the slaughter house.
Keeping this in view, the following need to be observed to ensure humane treatment of animals brought for
slaughter:—
z Pre-slaughter handling of animal should be carefully done to reduce stress. Resting of the animals is
essential. Only animals which are disease free and in a condition to walk should be brought for
slaughter.
z Distractions that impede animal movements such as, reflections, air blowing towards animals and
movement or high pitch noise, need to be avoided. Herding of animals should not be done through
electric prods but with the help of plastic bags or sticks.
z A high standard of training is required for employees to ensure that the basic hygiene and safety
practices are followed while handling animals.
z Equipment which is used for slaughter such as captive bolt stunner, gates, hooks etc should be kept
in good working condition and cleanliness of floors etc. needs to be ensured. There should be daily
check to ensure the smooth working of equipment and cleanliness of floors.
z The condition of the animals arriving at the plant should be monitored. Animals which are injured or
not in a condition to walk should not be slaughtered.
z Inspecting personnel should pay particular attention to these points to ensure reasonable standards
of animal welfare.
6. Poultry welfare:
Welfare programme
The conditions under which broilers are housed and the way that they are managed during their growing
phase, transportation and slaughter are set down in several government/industry endorsed Model Codes of Practice
designed to safeguard their welfare.
A model welfare program needs to be developed for pick-up, transport and broiler/chicken processing sectors.
Processing unit shall incorporate elements of this welfare audit in their own quality plans and manuals.
A Model programme shall envisage following:
Poultry Suppliers and processors must have a documented program for poultry welfare envisaging following;
(a) Catching: Poultry intended for slaughter plant should be clean and in good health. Every reasonable
precaution should be taken to minimize injury to poultry. The catcher needs to be trained to this effect.
(b) Transport: For transport of poultry crates shall be in good repair. There shall be no crate/cage
damage that would allow injury to poultry or allow crates to accidentally open. Transport crates should not be
over-filled and enough space should be provided to allow all poultry to lie down.

[Page 40]
104 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(c) Holding: Poultry held in storage sheds should be provided adequate ventilation and climate control
such as fans or curtains.
(d) Stunning: Stunning equipment should be properly maintained to confirm that poultry are insensible
prior to slaughter, and the time between stunning and slaughter should be limited to minimize any likelihood
that poultry may regain consciousness prior to slaughter.
Economic performance and welfare:
High standards of poultry welfare and high levels of flock performance and economic performance are not
incompatible - quite the contrary, they go hand in hand. It simply makes good economic sense as well as being in the
poultry's best interests to ensure that flocks are maintained in an environment, in which they are thermally comfortable,
protected from injury, fed optimally and kept healthy. Therefore, all measures described elsewhere to ensure that
chickens are kept in conditions which optimize their comfort (in terms of temperature, humidity, air flow and air
quality), in which they are provided with water, shelter, and a high quality diet that matches their physiological
needs, and which optimize their health have just as important effect in terms of poultry welfare as they do on the
overall efficiency of the farming operation.
Poultry health and welfare:
When producing chicken meat in a welfare-friendly manner it is also important that the poultry receive prompt
and appropriate medication and treatment to prevent and treat diseases if this should become necessary, and that
they do not suffer any unnecessary pain, distress, fear or physical injury. It is also important that sick or injured
poultry that cannot be adequately or successfully treated are culled quickly and in a humane manner so that they do
not suffer.
 Humane slaughter (poultry):
While the chickens are reared specifically for human consumption and they therefore at some stage have to
be slaughtered, they should be slaughtered in a humane manner, and all poultry should be stunned (rendered
insensible to pain) prior to slaughter.
Slaughter equipment at all supply facilities should be properly maintained to confirm that the poultry are
slaughtered quickly.
7. Ante-mortem inspection
(1) All animals shall be rested before slaughter and shall be subjected to ante-mortem examination and inspection
well in advance of the time of slaughter.
(2) No animal which has been received into a slaughter hall for the purpose of being slaughtered shall be removed
from the slaughter hall before being slaughtered except with the written consent of the Qualified V eterinary Doctor. An
animal which, on inspection is found to be not fit for slaughter shall be marked as "suspect" and kept separately. Each
such animal shall be marked as "suspect" only by or under the personal supervision of the Qualified Veterinary Doctor
and the marking shall not be removed or obliterated except by the Qualified Veterinary Doctor himself.
(3) An animal showing signs of any disease at the time of ante-mortem inspection that would cause its carcass being
ultimately condemned on post-mortem shall be marked as "condemned" and rejected.
(4) An animal declared as "suspect" on ante-mortem inspection but which does not plainly show any disease or
condition that would cause its entire carcass to be condemned shall maintain its identity as "suspect" until its carcass and
all organs are finally inspected by the Qualified V eterinary Doctor.
(5) No animal in a febrile condition shall be permitted for slaughter. No suspect animal shall be slaughtered until all
other animals intended for slaughter on the same day have been slaughtered. All animals which, on ante-mortem inspection,
show symptoms of railroad sickness, parturient paresis, rabies, tetanus or any other communicable diseases shall be
marked as "condemned" and disposed of in accordance with the provisions contained in sub paragraph (8) below.
(6) Animals presented for slaughter and found in a dying condition on the premises of a factory due to recent
disease shall be marked as "condemned" and disposed of as provided for "condemned" animals.
(7) Every animal which, upon examination, is found to show symptoms of or is suspected of being diseased or
animals declared as "suspect" shall at once be removed for treatment to such special pen and kept there for observation
for such period as may be considered necessary to ascertain whether the animal is diseased or not.