--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C44
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 26
Word Range: 11371 - 11751
Word Count: 381
--------------------

[Page 26]
90 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.4  No utensil or container used for the manufacture or preparation of or containing any food or ingredient of food
intended for sale shall be kept in any place in which such utensil or container is likely by reason of impure air or dust or any
offensive, noxious or deleterious gas or substance or any noxious or injurious emanations, exhalation, or effluvium, to be
contaminated and thereby render the food noxious.
3.5 Equipment shall be so  located, designed and fabricated  that it permits necessary maintenance and cleaning
functions as per its intended use and facilitates good hygiene practices inside the premise including monitoring and audit.
3.6Appropriate facilities for the cleaning and disinfecting of equipments and instruments and wherever possible
cleaning in place (CIP) system shall be adopted.
3.7Equipment and containers for waste, by-products and inedible or dangerous substances, shall be specifically
identifiable and suitably constructed.
3.8Containers used to hold cleaning chemicals and other dangerous substances shall be identified and stored
separately to prevent malicious or accidental contamination of food.
3.9 If required, a waste water disposal system / effluent treatment plant shall be put in place.
3.10 All items, fittings and equipments that touch or come in contact with  food must be:
z kept in good condition in a way that enables them to be kept clean and wherever necessary, to be
disinfected.
z Chipped enameled containers will not be used. Stainless steel /aluminum / glass containers, mugs,
jugs, trays etc. suitable for cooking and storing shall  be used. Brass utensils shall be frequently provided with
lining.
4 FACILITIES
4.1 Water supply
4.1.1 Only potable water, with appropriate facilities for its storage and distribution shall be used as an
ingredient in processing and cooking.
4.1.2 Water used  for food handling, washing,  should be of such quality that it does not introduce any hazard
or contamination to render the finished food article unsafe.
4.1.3 Water storage tanks shall be cleaned periodically and records of the same shall be maintained in a
register.
4.1.4 Non potable water can be used provided it is intended only for cleaning of equipment not coming in
contact with food, which does not come into contact with food steam production, fire fighting & refrigeration
equipment and provided that pipes installed for this purpose preclude the use of this water for other purposes and
present no direct or indirect risk of contamination of the raw material, dairy products or food products so processed,
packed & kept in the premise.
4.1.5 Non potable water pipes shall be clearly distinguished from those in use for potable water.
4.2 For Cleaning Utensils / Equipments
Adequate facilities for cleaning, disinfecting of utensils and equipments shall be provided. The facilities must
have an adequate supply of hot and cold water if required.
4.3 Washing of Raw materials
Adequate facilities for washing of raw food should be provided. Every sink (or other facilities) for washing
food must have an adequate supply of hot and/or cold water. These facilities must be kept clean and, where
necessary, disinfected. Preferably, sinks which are used for washing raw foods shall be kept separate and that
should not be used for washing utensils or any other purposes.
4.4 Ice and Steam
Ice and steam used in direct contact with food shall be made from potable water and shall comply with
requirements specified under 4.1.1. Ice and steam shall be produced, handled and stored in such a manner that no
contamination can happen