--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C49
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 28
Word Range: 12752 - 13141
Word Count: 390
--------------------

[Page 28]
92 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
5.1.7 Receiving temperature of potentially high risk food should be at or below 5 0C
5.1.8 Receiving temperature of frozen food should be -18 0C or below.
5.2 Storage of raw materials and food
5.2.1 Food storage facilities shall be designed and constructed to enable food to be effectively protected from
contamination during storage; permit adequate maintenance and cleaning, to avoid pest access and accumulation.
5.2.2 Cold Storage facility, wherever required, shall be provided to raw, processed / packed food according to
the type and requirement.
5.2.3 Segregation shall be provided for the storage of raw, processed, rejected, recalled or returned materials
or products which will be distinguishably marked and secured. Raw materials and food shall be stored in separate
areas from printed packaging materials, stationary, hardware and cleaning materials / chemicals.
5.2.4 Raw food, particularly meat, poultry and seafood products shall be cold stored separately from the area
of work-in-progress, processed, cooked and packaged products. The conditions of storage in terms of temperature
and humidity requisite for enhancing the shelf life of the respective food materials / products shall be maintained.
5.2.5 Storage of raw materials, ingredients, work-in-progress and processed / cooked or packaged food
products shall be subject to FIFO (First in, First Out), FEFO (First Expire First Out) stock rotation system as
applicable.
5.2.6 Containers made of non-toxic materials shall be provided for storage of raw materials, work-in-progress
and finished / ready to serve products. The food materials shall be stored on racks / pallets such that they are
reasonably well above the floor level and away from the wall so as to facilitate effective cleaning and prevent
harbouring of any pests, insects or rodents.
5.3 Food Processing / Preparation, Packaging and Distribution / Service
5.3.1.Time and temperature control
5.3.1.1 The Food Business shall develop and maintain the systems to ensure that time and temperature are
controlled effectively where it is critical to the safety and suitability of food. Such control shall include time and
temperature of receiving, processing, cooking, cooling, storage, packaging, distribution and food service upto the
consumer, as applicable.
5.3.1.2 Whenever frozen food / raw materials are being used / handled / transported, proper care should be
taken so that defrosted / thawed material are not stored back after opening for future use.
5.3.1.3 If thawing is required then only required portion of the food should be thawed at a time.
5.3.1.4 Wherever cooking is done on open fire, proper outlets for smoke/steam etc. like chimney, exhaust fan
etc. shall be provided.
5.4 Food Packaging
5.4.1 Packaging materials shall provide protection for all food products to prevent contamination, damage and shall
accommodate required labelling as laid down under the FSS Act & the Regulations there under.
5.4.2 For primary packaging (i.e packaging in which the food or ingredient or additive comes in direct contact with
the packaging material), only Food grade packaging materials are to be used . For packaging materials like aluminium
plastic and tin, the standards to be followed are as mentioned under the FSS Regulations and rules framed there under.
5.4.3 Packaging materials or gases where used, shall be non-toxic and shall not pose a threat to the safety and
suitability of food under the specified conditions of storage and use.
5.5 Food Distribution / Service
5.5.1 All critical links in the supply chain need to be identified and provided for to minimize food spoilage during
transportation. Processed / packaged and / or ready-to-eat food shall be protected as per the required storage conditions
during transportation and / or service.
5.5.2 Temperatures and humidity which are necessary for sustaining food safety and quality shall be maintained.
The conveyances and /or containers shall be designed, constructed and maintained in such manner that they can
effectively maintain the requisite temperature, humidity, atmosphere and other conditions necessary to protect food