--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 43 to Page 44
Word Range: 21378 - 22768
Word Count: 1,391
--------------------

[Page 43]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 107
2.9 The use of construction materials which cannot be adequately cleaned and disinfected such as
wood, should be avoided unless its use would clearly not be a source of contamination, and
2.10 Office accommodation should be provided for the use of the meat inspection agency.
3. Sanitary Facilities:
3.1 Water Supply:
3.1.1. Supply of potable water under pressure should be available with facilities for its storage, where necessary
for distribution, and with protection against contamination;
3.1.2. An supply of hot potable water should be available at all times during working hours;
Note - This provision is intended to cover water for both cleaning purposes and the destruction of
microorganisms (especially those pathogenic to man) on knives, utensils etc., and coming into direct contact with
meat. For cleaning purposes the temperature of the water should be 65 degree Celsius. The hot water for disinfection
purposes should be at 82 degree Celsius and dispensed in such a way (e.g. in specially designed boxes near the
working area) that blades of knives etc., can be submerged in the water for a contact time (no less than two minutes).
Often this water supply is separate from other hot water supplies used for cleaning, hand washing etc. But if there
is only one hot water supply the term "adequate" should mean that even at times where large amounts of hot water
is used (e.g. during cleaning operations) the water supply from any tap in the establishment should not be decreased;
3.1.3 Ice should be made from potable water and should be manufactured, handled and stored so as to protect
it from contamination; and
3.1.4 Steam used in contact directly with meat should be produced from potable water and contain no substances
which may be hazardous to health or may contaminate the food.
3.2 Effluent and Waste Disposal - Meat processing unit should have an efficient effluent and waste disposal system.
All effluent lines (including sewer systems) should be large enough to carry peak loads and should be constructed in such
a manner as to avoid contamination of potable water supplies. Biological oxygen demand level shall be less than 1500, and
for that an effluent treatment plant, if necessary may be installed.
3.3 Facilities for Storage of Waste and Inedible Material. - Facilities should be provided for the storage of waste and
inedible material prior to removal from the establishment. These facilities should be designed to prevent access to waste
or inedible material by pests and to avoid contamination of food, potable water and equipment or building.
3.4 Changing Facilities and Toilets.- Suitable and conveniently located changing facilities and toilets should be
provided in all establishments. Toilets should be so designed as to ensure hygienic removal of waste matter. These areas
should be well lit and ventilated and should not open directly on to food handling areas. Hand washing facilities with
warm or hot and cold water with suitable hygienic means of drying hands should be provided adjacent to toilets and in
such a position that the employee must pass them when returning to the processing area. Where hot and cold water are
available, mixing taps should be provided. Where paper towels are used, a sufficient number of dispensers and receptacles
should be provided near to each washing facility. Taps of non-hand operable type are preferable. Notices should be
posted directing personnel to wash their hands after using the toilets.
3.5 Hand Washing Facilities in Processing Areas:
3.5.1 Adequate and conveniently located facilities for hand washing and drying should be provided wherever
the process demands. Where appropriate, facilities for hand disinfection should be provided. The facilities should
be furnished with properly trapped waste pipes leading to drains.
3.5.2 All rooms used for deboning, preparing, packing or other handling of meat should be equipped with
adequate facilities for cleaning and disinfecting implements, conveniently located for the use of personnel during
operations. These facilities are for use exclusively in the cleaning and disinfection of knives, steels, cleavers, saws
and other implements.
3.5.3 All facilities for cleaning and disinfecting implements should be of such nature and sizes as to permit
proper cleaning and disinfection of implements . These facilities should be constructed of corrosion - resistant
materials and should be capable of being easily cleaned.
3.5.4 All facilities for cleaning and disinfecting of implements should be fitted with suitable means of supplying
hot water in sufficient quantity at all times while meat is being handled in that part of the Meat Processing Unit.

[Page 44]
108 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.5.5 Lighting - Adequate natural or artificial lighting should be provided throughout the meat processing
unit. Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than
 540 Lux (50 foot candles) at all inspection points.
 220 Lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms.
 110 Lux (10 foot candles) in other areas.
Light bulbs and fixtures suspended over meat in any stage of production should be of a safety type and
protected to prevent contamination of meat in case of breakage.
3.6 Ventilation - V entilation should be provided to prevent excessive heat, steam condensation, dust and to remove
contaminated air. The direction of the air flow should never be from a dirty area to clean area. V entilation openings should
be provided with an insect screen or other protective enclosure of non-corrodible material. Screens should be easily
removable for cleaning.
4. Equipment and Utensils :
4.1 Materials - All equipments, implements and utensils used in establishments which come into contact with
exposed meat and meat products should present a smooth impervious surface and be resistant to corrosion and should be
made of material which is non-toxic, does not transmit odour or taste, is free from pits and crevices, is non-absorbent and
capable of withstanding repeated exposure to normal cleaning and disinfection. Such equipment should be so constructed
that they may be easily cleaned.
4.2 Sanitary Design, Construction and Installation:
4.2.1 All equipments and utensils should be so designed and constructed as to prevent hygiene hazards and
permits easy and thorough cleaning and disinfection and where practicable be visible for inspection. Stationary
equipment should be installed in such a manner as to permit easy access and thorough cleaning.
4.2.2 Containers for inedible material and waste should be leak proof, constructed of non-corrosive metal or
other suitable impervious materials which should be easy to clean or disposable and where appropriate, able to be
closed securely; and
4.2.3 All refrigerated spaces should be equipped with temperature measurement or recording devices.
4.3 Equipment Identification - Equipment and utensils used for inedible material or waste should be so
identified and should not be used for edible products.
5. Hygiene Requirements :
5.1 Maintenance. The buildings, rooms, equipment and all other physical facilities of the meat processing unit,
including drains, should be maintained in good repair and in orderly condition. Except for rooms where meat processing
or cleaning operations are performed, they should be free from steam, vapour and surplus water.
5.2 Cleaning and Disinfection - Cleaning and disinfection should meet the following requirements :
(i) Amenities provided for the use of employee and the inspection service including changing facilities, toilets
and the inspection office space should be kept clean at all times.
(ii) If rooms, intended and most of the time used for the handling, preparation, processing, packaging on
storage of meat, are used for any other food preparation purposes, then cleaning and disinfection are necessary
immediately before and after such use.
(iii) The temperature in rooms for boning out and trimming should be controlled and held suitably low, unless
cleaning of equipment and utensils are carried out at least every four hours;
(iv) To prevent contamination of meat, all equipments, implements, tables, utensils including knives, cleaves,
knife pouches, saws, mechanical instruments and containers should be cleaned at frequent intervals during the day
and immediately cleaned and disinfected whenever they come into contact with diseased material, infective material
or otherwise become contaminated. They shall also be cleaned and disinfected at the conclusion of each working
day.
(v) If any skip or trolley or any container used in a department where edible material is handled, enters an area
where inedible material is handled it should be cleaned and disinfected immediately before re-entering the edible
department.