--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C12
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 35 to Page 36
Word Range: 16008 - 17506
Word Count: 1,499
--------------------

[Page 35]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 99
3.24 All slaughter house refuse and waste materials will be suitably processed to prepare animal bye products
or dumped in pits that are suitably covered so as to prevent its access to scavengers. For large slaughter houses, a
suitable provision of  Effuent Treatment Plant will be made.
3.25 In case of small slaughter houses, waste material should be composted which can be used for manure
purpose and in case of large slaughter houses, waste material should be rendered (cooked) in a rendering plant to
produce meat, bone meal and inedible fats.
3.26 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided for the isolation of meat requiring further examination
by the authorised veterinary officer in a suitable laboratory (within the premises of the slaughter house).
3.27 Consistent with the size of the factory and volume and variety of meat food products manufactured, a
laboratory shall be provided, equipped and staffed with qualified (chemist/analyst and Veterinary Microbiologist)
and trained personnel. The licensing authority shall accord approval of the laboratory after inspection.
3.28 The Chemist/analyst shall have passed graduation with Chemistry as one subject and the. Veterinary
Microbiologist shall be a qualified veterinarian with two years of experience in Meat analysis or having degree of
Master in Veterinary Public Health with specialization in Meat Hygiene.
3.29. Adequate natural or artificial lighting should be provided throughout the abattoir/ meat processing unit.
Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than 540 Lux (50 foot
candles) at all inspection points, 220 Lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms and 110 Lux (10 foot candles) in other areas.
Light bulbs and fixtures suspended over meat in any stage of production should be of safety type and protected to
prevent contamination of meat in case of breakage. As far as possible meat inspection shall be carried out in day
light. Every abattoir shall be provided with well distributed artificial light.
4. Sanitary Practices:
4.01 Every part of the internal surface above the floor or pavement of such slaughter house shall be washed
thoroughly with hot lime wash within the first 10 days of March, June, September and December. Every part of the
floor or pavement of the slaughter house and every part of the internal surface of every wall on which any blood or
liquid refuse or filth may have been spilt or splashed or with which any offensive or noxious matter have been
brought into contact during the process of slaughtering, dressing and cutting, shall be thoroughly cleaned, washed
with water, wiped/dried and disinfectant within three hours after the completion of slaughter.
4.02 Rooms and compartments in which animals are slaughtered or any product is processed or prepared shall
be kept sufficiently free from steam, vapours and moisture and obnoxious odours so as to ensure clean and hygienic
operations. This will also apply to overhead structures in those rooms and compartments.
4.03 All parts of the establishments / Slaughter Houses shall always be kept clean, adequately lighted and
ventilated and shall be regularly cleaned, and disinfected. The floorings shall be impervious and washed daily. Lime
washing, colour washing or painting as the case may be, shall be done at least once in every twelve months.
4.04 All yards, outhouses, stores and all approaches to the establishments / Slaughter Houses shall always be
kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
4.05 Suitable and sufficient receptacles furnished with closely fitted covers shall be provided for collection
and removal of all garbage, filth and refuse from the slaughter house at a convenient time to a place away from the
factory for disposal.
4.06 All blood , manure, garbage, filth or other refuse from any animal slaughtered and the hide, fat, viscera and
offal there from, shall be removed from the slaughter house within 8 hours after the completion of the slaughtering
and in such a manner and by such means as will not cause nuisance at the premises or elsewhere. Every such vessel
or receptacle shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected immediately after use and shall be kept thoroughly clean
when not in actual use.
4.07 The inner side of the skin shall not be rubbed or caused to be rubbed upon the ground within any portion
of the slaughter hall. Hides and skins shall not be dragged within the slaughter hall. No gut-scraping, tripe cleaning,
manufacture or preparation of meat food products, household washing of clothes or work of any nature other than
is involved in the slaughter and dressing of the carcass shall be permitted in any slaughter hall except in the
adjuncts to the slaughter hall intended for these products and purposes.
4.08 The premises shall be cleaned thoroughly with disinfectants, one day in advance of production of meat
food products and the equipments shall be sterilized/sanitized before use. The rooms and compartments in which

[Page 36]
100 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
any meat food product is prepared or handled shall be free from dust and from odours emanating from dressing
rooms, toilet rooms, catch basins, hide cellars, casing rooms and livestock pens.
4.09 Every practicable precaution shall be taken to exclude flies, rats, mice and vermin from the establishments
/ Slaughter Houses. The use of poisons for any purpose in rooms or compartments where any unpacked product is
stored or handled is forbidden. The use of approved bait poisons in hide cellars, compartments where inedible
products are stored, outhouses or similar buildings containing canned products is, however, not forbidden.
4.10 It shall be ensured that dogs, cats or birds do not have access to the slaughter hall. Open areas in the
factory shall have covered wire rope netting to prevent carrion birds from access to the slaughter hall or the factory.
4.11 Water used in the establishments / Slaughter Houses shall be potable and suitable arrangements shall be
made for ensuring potability of water if bore well water is used for production of meat and meat products. If required
by the licensing authority, the water shall be got examined chemically and bacteriologic ally by a recognised
laboratory. The water quality shall comply the standards prescribed by the licensing Authority.
4.12 Warm meat' meant for immediate sale need not be stored in cool conditions. It can be transported in a
hygienic and sanitary condition in clean insulated containers with covers (lids) to the meat shops/selling units with
precautions to ensure that no contamination/cross contamination or deterioration takes place.
5. Equipment & Machinery:
5.1 The equipment and fittings in slaughter hall except for chopping blocks, cutting boards and brooms, shall
be of such material and of such construction as to enable them to be kept clean. The implements shall be of metal or
other cleanable and durable material resistant to corrosion.
5.2 No vessel, container or other equipment, the use of which is likely to cause metallic contamination
injurious to health shall be employed in the preparation, packing or storage of meat food products. (Copper or brass
vessels shall always be heavily lined. No iron or galvanised iron shall come in contact with meat food products).
6. Personnel Hygiene:
6.1 No person suffering from infectious or contagious diseases shall be allowed to work in the factory.
Arrangements shall be made to get the factory staff medically examined at such intervals as the licensing authority
deems fit, to ensure that they are free from infectious, contagious and other diseases. A record of these examinations
signed by a registered medical practitioner shall be maintained for inspection.
6.2 The staff shall be inoculated against the enteric group of diseases and a certificate thereof shall be kept for
inspection.
6.3 In case of an epidemic, all workers should be inoculated or vaccinated.
6.4 The workers working in processing and preparation shall be provided with proper aprons and head wears
which shall be clean. The management shall ensure that all workers are neat, clean and tidy.
(a) Animal Welfare
Animal welfare is a major concern in meat production. It is essential that animals be reared, handled,
transported, and slaughtered using humane practices. A healthy and peaceful animal is an essential requirement
for hygienic slaughter and safety of the meat product.
Careful handling of animals during loading / unloading, transportation and at slaughtering helps in improving
the quality of meat and reduction in losses in the value of the carcass/meat.
1. Pre Slaughter Handling of Animal:
Livestock are transported en masse from the farm to the slaughterhouse, a process called "live export". Depending
on its length and circumstances, this exerts stress and injuries on the animals and some may die en route. Apart from being
inhumane, unnecessary stress in transport may adversely affect the quality of the meat. In particular, the muscles of
stressed animals are low in water and glycogen, and their pH fails to attain acidic values.
Transportation of Animals
Following requirements shall be satisfied for Transportation of Animals from a farm to the slaughter house.
1.0 General Conditions