--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C19
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 49 to Page 51
Word Range: 25606 - 27073
Word Count: 1,468
--------------------

[Page 49]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 113
10. Other Requirements
10.01 The prepared meat shall be packed in waxed paper and then placed in polyethylene bags or packed directly in
bags made of food grade plastics.
10.02 Failure to comply with any of these instructions may entail legal action against the defaulters, and even result
in cancellation of license by the appropriate authority of the concerned Panchayats/Municipalities/Corporation.
10.03 No Objection Certificate from law and order point of view to be obtained from police department or the
concerned Panchayats/Municipalities/Corporation before grant of license for buffalo meat and pork shop.
10.04 The concerned Panchayats/Municipalities responsible for local administration in the country shall appoint
qualified Veterinary staff for the meat inspection (Ante mortem and Post mortem inspection) or if regular staff cannot be
made available or deployed for the purpose shall make contractual arrangements for availing the services of qualified
V eterinary staff for meat inspection available with the Animal Husbandry Depts. of the concerned state/UT in the country.
10.05 Retail meat shop license shall be granted subject to fulfillment of all the above technical and administrative
instructions in relation to the trade.
Part - V
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators
engaged in catering / food service establishments
In addition to Part-II the Catering/ food Service establishment in which food is being handled, processed,
manufactured, stored, distributed and ultimately sold to the customers and the persons handling them should conform to
the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures and other standard as specified below.
It includes premises where public is admitted for repose or for consumption of any food or drink or any place where
cooked food is sold or prepared for sale. It includes:
(a) Eating Houses
(b) Restaurants & Hotels
(c) Snack Bars,
(d) Canteens (Schools, Colleges, Office, Institutions)
(e) Food Service at religious places
(f) Neighbourhood Tiffin Services / dabba walas
(g) Rail and airline catering
(h) Hospital catering
I. GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICES FOR WHOLE PREMISE
I. Food Preparation Areas
The following rules apply to rooms where food is prepared. There will be no smoke nuisance in the food
preparation area. Wherever cooking or frying of any kind is being done, a chimney having appropriate suction
capacity as per the size of the kitchen has to be installed prior to start of business.
II . Hand washing facilities and toilets
(1) Adequate number of wash-hand basins made of porcelain/stainless steel shall be provided along with
soap to wash hands, with hot and cold running water, and materials for cleaning hands and drying them hygienically.
Clean and dry towels shall be kept for the use of customers.
(2) Separate sinks must be provided, where necessary, for washing raw food and cleaning equipment.
(3) Sinks with a draining board, detergent and hot water shall be provided to ensure proper cleaning of
utensils, crockery and cutlery there will be a separate place for washing pots and pains.
2. Changing facilities:
Facilities for staff to change their clothes, where necessary must be provided.

[Page 50]
114 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
II. GOOD FOOD HYGIENE PRACTICES
1. Cleaning
z Food areas and equipment between different tasks, especially after handling raw food shall be cleaned.
z The surface shall be thoroughly cleaned in case if somebody spills food / water / drink.
z A systematic cleaning schedule and instructions has to be developed by the FBO.
z Food handlers should strictly follow the systematic cleaning schedule to make sure that surfaces and
equipment are cleaned when they need to be.
The schedule should include:
z what needs to be cleaned
z how often it needs to be cleaned
z how the cleaning should be done
Cleaning instructions should indicate:
z what cleaning products should be used
z how the products should be stored ( away from raw, cooked, packed food) and used
z how much they should be used or diluted
z how long that should be left in contact with the surface (following the manufacturer's instructions)
2. Raw materials
1. Raw materials shall be purchased from reliable and known dealers and checked for visible deterioration &
off- odour.
2. There should be no physical hazards and foreign body contamination.
1. Raw paste, sauces etc. should be stored in properly covered containers made of food grade material and
checked regularly for fungal growth, deterioration etc.
Preparation of fruits/ vegetables:
(1) Fruits and vegetables that have been protected from cross-contamination and properly conserved should
be used.
(3) Whole fruits and vegetables should be washed in potable water before being cut, mixed with other
ingredients. Uncooked, ready-to-eat fruits & vegetables should be with 50 ppm chlorinated water before cutting,
peeling or serving.
(4) Fruits and vegetables should be peeled, squeezed and/or cut, as appropriate, with clean equipment/
utensils made of non-absorbent food grade materials.
(5) Previously prepared fruits/vegetables should be kept in clean and properly covered food grade containers
under refrigeration or at a maximum temperature suitable for the product in question.
Preparation of Non-veg. Products:—
(1) Raw meat and processed meat should be separated from other foods; items and surfaces.
(2) Separate items (e.g. cutting boards, dishes, knives) and preparation area for raw meats and poultry and
marine products should be used to avoid cross contamination of food.
(3) Hands should be thoroughly washed before switching from preparing raw meat or poultry or marine
products to any other activity.
(4) Ensure proper cooking of all non vegetarian products.
(5) Used surfaces should be washed with antibacterial cleaning agent, rinsed properly with water and sanitized
after preparing raw meat/poultry.
(6) Ensure that frozen products are thawed as per point no. 9 under special requirements for high risk foods.

[Page 51]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 115
3. Cooking
(a) The preparation/ processing/ cooking should be adequate to eliminate and reduce hazards to an acceptable
level which might have been introduced at the raw food level.
(b) The preparation/ processing/ cooking methods should ensure that the foods are not re- contaminated.
(c) The preparation/ processing/ cooking of veg. & non-veg. products should be segregated.
(d) Whenever cooking or reheating of food is done, it should be hot all the way through, It is especially
important to make sure that food is cooked thoroughly.
(e) Re-use of cooking oil should be avoided.
(f) Food hot held at 60°c and cooled at 21°c within 2 hrs or cooled to 5°c in 4 hours and thereafter refrigerated
might be reheated.
(g) Reheated food must reach a minimum internal temperature of 74°C.When using microwave to reheat, food
must reach a minimum temperature of 74°C and stayed covered for 5 mins to allow the temperature to equilibrate.
(h) Reheat food quickly in ovens, steamer, microwave oven and/or on top of range in a steam kettle.
(i) Never reheat food on a steam table, in a bain marie, in a bun drawer and/or under a heat lamp.
(j) In case of reheating of oil use maximum three times to avoid the formation of trans fat. It is ideal to use once
if possible.
4. Chilling
z Semi cooked or cooked dishes and other ready-to-eat foods such as prepared salads and desserts having
short shelf life should not be left standing at room temperature.
z Chilled food intended for consumption should be cold enough.
z Food items that need to be chilled should be put straight away into the fridge.
z Cooked food should be cooled as quickly as possible and then put it in the fridge.
z Chilled food should be processed in the shortest time possible.
z Fridge and display units should be cold enough and as per requirement.
z In practice, fridge should be set at 5?C to make sure that food is kept in chilled condition. Also, fridge and
display units should be maintained in good working condition to avoid food spoilage and contamination.
5. Cross-contamination
Following should be done to avoid cross - contamination.
z Raw food/ meat/poultry and ready-to-eat foods should be kept separate at all times.
z Hands should be thoroughly washed after touching raw meat/poultry.
z Work surfaces, chopping boards and equipments should be thoroughly cleaned before the preparing of
food starts and after it has been used.
z Separate chopping boards and knives for raw fruit/ vegetables/ meat/poultry and ready-to-eat food
should be used.
z Raw meat/poultry below ready-to-eat food should be kept in the fridge.
z Separate fridge for raw meat/poultry should be kept.
z Staff should be made aware how to avoid cross-contamination.
III. PERSONAL HYGIENE
1. High standards of personal hygiene should be maintained.
2. All employees handling food should wash their hands properly:
z before preparing food
z after touching raw food or materials, specially meat/poultry or eggs