--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 33 to Page 34
Word Range: 14716 - 16007
Word Count: 1,292
--------------------

[Page 33]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 97
packaging from any damage during transport to the dairy establishment, and they shall have been stored there
under hygienic conditions in a room intended for that purpose;
(c) the rooms for storing the packaging material shall be free from vermin and from dust which could constitute
an unacceptable risk of contamination of the product and shall be separated from rooms containing substances
which might contaminate the products. Packaging shall not be placed directly on the floor;
(d) packaging shall be assembled under hygienic conditions before being brought into the room, except in the
case of automatic assembly or packaging, provided that there is no risk of contamination of the products;
(e) packaging shall be done without delay. It shall be handled by separate group of staff having experience in
handling and product wrapping and
(f) immediately after packaging, the dairy products shall be placed in the designated rooms provided for
storage under required temperature.
3. Bottling or filling of containers with heat-treated milk and milk product shall be carried out hygienically.
4. Wrapping or packaging may not be re-used for dairy products, except where the containers are of a type which
may be re-used after thorough cleaning and disinfecting.
5. Sealing shall be carried out in the establishment in which the last heat-treatment of milk or liquid milk-based
products have been carried out, immediately after filling, by means of a sealing device which ensures that the milk is
protected from any adverse effects of external origin on its characteristic. The sealing device shall be so designed that
once the container has been opened, the evidence of opening remains clear and easy to check.
PART IV
(See Regulation 2.1.2 (1)(5))
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators engaged in manufacture,
processing, storing and selling of Meat and Meat Products
A. Slaughter House
Food Business Operator which slaughters large animals and small animals including sheep and goat or poultry birds
within the premises of his factory for production of meat/ meat products for supply / sale/ distribution to the public shall
comply with the following requirements:—
1. General Requirements:
1.1 No Objection Certificate to be obtained from local Authority before grant of license.
2. Location of Premises:
Such establishments / Slaughter Houses should be linked to a meat market located away from V egetable, fish
or other food markets and shall be free from undesirable odour, smoke, dust or other contaminants. The premises
shall be located at elevated level in a sanitary place.
3. Premise requirements:
3.1 The slaughter house shall have a reception area/animal holding yard/resting yard, lairage, slaughter hall,
side halls for hide collection, paunch collection, offals collection, and separation, holding room for suspected/
condemned carcass, by-product harvesting, refrigeration room/cold room etc.
3.2 Every such establishment / Slaughter House shall make separate provision in the slaughter hall for the
slaughter of different species which are proposed to be slaughtered (like large animal viz; Cattle and Buffalo, Pigs
and small animals like Sheep & Goat) and for different methods of slaughter (like Halal, Jewish and Jhatka). After
every type of operation the slaughter house shall be cleaned, washed wiped/dried and sanitized thoroughly.
3.3 The slaughter house shall have separation between clean and dirty sections and shall be so organized that
from the introduction of a live animal into the slaughter house up to the emergence of meat and offal classed as fit
for human consumption there shall be a continuous forward movement without any possibility of reversal, intersection
or overlapping between the live animal meat, and between meat and bye products or waste.

[Page 34]
98 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.4 The reception area/animal holding yard/ resting yard shall have facilities for watering and examining
animals before they are sent to holding pens/lairage. Animals suspected of contagious or infectious diseases shall
be segregated and kept in separate isolation pens which shall also be provided with arrangements for watering and
feeding. After confirmation for any notifiable disease, the designated Veterinary Authority shall notify the disease
as per the existing procedures. The resting yard must have overhead protective shelter.(This is not mandatory for
registration category)
3.5 The lairage shall be adequate in size for the number of animals to be laired.
3.6 Separate space shall be provided for stunning (Wherever applicable), for collection of blood and for
dressing of the carcasses. The slaughtering of an animal shall not be done in the sight of other animals. The
dressing of the carcass shall not be done on the floor. Suitable hoists will be provided to hang the carcass before it
is eviscerated.
3.7 All the floors in lairage, slaughter halls, work rooms, hanging rooms shall be of impervious and non-
slippery material.
3.8 The internal walls will be paved with impervious glazed tiles up to 1 meter height in case of poultry and
small ruminant animals and 5 meter height in case of large ruminant animals . The walls and floors should be epoxy
coated so as to avoid accumulation/absorption of dust, blood/meat particles, microbial/fungal growth.
3.9 Ceiling or roofs shall be so constructed and finished so as to minimise condensation, mould development,
flaking and accumulation of dirt.
3.10 Suitable and sufficient accommodation shall be provided for segregation, storage and disposal of
condemned meat.
3.11 The establishments / Slaughter Houses shall be so constructed and maintained as to permit hygienic
production.
3.12 Windows, doors and other openings suited to screening shall be fly proof. All doors shall have strong
springs so that they may close automatically.
3.13 All operations in connection with the preparation or packing of meat / meat food products shall be carried
out under hygienic conditions. No portion of the establishments / Slaughter Houses premises shall ever be used for
living or sleeping purposes unless it is separated from the factory by a wall.
3.14 There shall be efficient drainage and plumbing systems and all drains and gutters shall be properly and
permanently installed. There shall be provision for the disposal of refuse.
3.15 The drainage system for blood shall either be underground with facility for easy cleaning or a portable
receptacle with lid. All drainages will have traps and screens so as to prevent entry of scavengers like rats, mice,
vermin etc.
3.16 The rooms and compartments where edible products are handled shall be separate and distinct from the
rooms and compartments for inedible products.
3.17 Suitable and separate space shall be provided for the storage of hides and skins. This room shall have a
separate exit.
3.18 A constant and sufficient supply of clean potable cold water with pressure hose pipes and supply of hot
water should be made available in the slaughter hall during working hours.
3.19 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided for persons working in the slaughter house for changing
their clothes and cleaning their footwear, and cleaning their hands before entering rooms used for the preparation
and storage of meat.
3.20 Provision for latrines, toilets and change rooms will be made . Sufficient number of latrines, urinals,
washbasins and bathrooms for each sex shall be provided.
3.21 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided in convenient places within the slaughter house for the
sterilisation of knives and sharpner (mushtala) and other equipment used in the slaughter house. The knives and
sharpner (mushtala) shall be of stainless steel only.
3.22 Whenever cooking is done on open fire, chimneys shall be provided for removal of smoke and soot.
3.23 Whenever the dressed meat is not used up for the preparation of meat food products and some portion
has to be stored without further immediate processing, such storage shall be in a room maintained at 0° C to 2°C.