--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C87
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 42
Word Range: 22959 - 23327
Word Count: 369
--------------------

[Page 42]
106 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
examination, the carcass, organ or part thereof shall be marked as "Held". If on subsequent inspection, the carcass, organ
or part thereof is found to be unwholesome and unfit for human food, the Qualified Veterinary Doctor shall mark such a
carcass, organ or part thereof as "condemned" and shall dispose it of as described in the foregoing paragraphs.
a. Sanitary and Hygienic Requirements for Meat processing units
Following Sanitary and Hygienic requirements shall be satisfied by the meat processing unit.
1. Location:
1.1 Meat processing unit should be located in areas not subjected to regular and frequent flooding and
free from objectionable odours, smoke dust and other contaminants;
1.2 Roadways and areas serving the meat processing unit which are within its boundaries or in its
immediate vicinity should have a hard paved surface suitable for wheeled traffic. There should be adequate
drainage and provision for cleaning;
1.3 Where appropriate, meat processing unit should be so designed that access can be controlled.
2. Building and Facilities:
2.1 The meat processing unit should provide adequate working space for the satisfactory performance
of all operations.
2.2 The construction should be sound and ensure adequate ventilation, good natural or artificial lighting
and easy cleaning.
2.3 The meat processing unit should be laid out and equipped so as to facilitate proper supervision of
meat hygiene including performance of inspection and control;
2.4 The meat processing unit should be of such construction as to protect against the entrance and
harbouring of insects, birds, rodents or other vermin as well as the entry of environmental contaminants such
as smoke, dust etc.
2.5 Buildings and facilities should be designed to provide separation by partition, location or other
effective means, between those operations which may cause cross-contamination;
2.6 Meat processing unit should be laid out and equipped so as to ensure, that edible meat does not
come into contact with floors, walls or other fixed structures, except those which are specifically designed for
contact with meat;
2.7 The construction and lay out of any chilling room, freezing room, freezer store or freezer should
satisfy the requirements of these rules;
2.8 In meat handling areas :
— Floors should be of waterproof, non-absorbent, washable non-slippery and made of nontoxic
materials, without crevices and should be easy to clean and slope sufficiently for liquids to drain
to trapped outlets;
— Walls should be of waterproof, non-absorbent, washable and nontoxic materials and should be
light coloured. Up to a height of at least 1.5 metres, they should be smooth and without crevices,
and should be easy to clean , space between walls and ceilings should be sealed and covered to
facilitate cleaning;
—  Ceilings should be so designed, constructed and finished as to prevent any accumulation of dirt
and minimize condensation, mould development and flaking and should be easy to clean;
— Windows and other openings should be so constructed as to avoid accumulation of dirt and
those which open should be fitted with insect screen. Screens should be easily movable for
cleaning and kept in good repair. Internal window sills, if present, should be sloped to prevent use
as shelves;
— Doors should have smooth, non-absorbent surfaces and where appropriate, be self-closing and
close fitting; and
— Stairs, lift cages and auxiliary structures such as platforms, ladders, chutes, should be so situated
and constructed as not to cause contamination of meat. They should be capable of being effectively
cleaned. Chutes should be constructed with inspection and cleaning hatches;