--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 25 to Page 26
Word Range: 9591 - 10851
Word Count: 1,261
--------------------

[Page 25]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 89
Part-II
(See Regulation 2.1.1(4))
General Requirements on Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by all Food Business Operators applying for
License
The establishment in which food is being handled, processed, manufactured, packed, stored, and distributed by the
food business operator and the persons handling them should conform to the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food
safety measures and other standards as specified below. It shall also be deemed to be the responsibility of the food
business operator to ensure adherence to necessary requirements.
In addition to the requirements specified below, the food business operator shall identify steps in the activities of
food business, which are critical to ensure food safety, and ensure that safety procedures are identified, implemented,
maintained and reviewed periodically.
1 LOCATION AND SURROUNDINGS
1.1 Food Establishment shall ideally be located away from environmental pollution and industrial activities that
produce disagreeable or obnoxious odour, fumes, excessive soot, dust, smoke, chemical or biological emissions and
pollutants, and which pose a threat of contaminating food areas that are prone to infestations of pests or  where wastes,
either solid or liquid, cannot be removed effectively.
1.2 In case there are hazards of other environment polluting industry located nearby, appropriate measures should
be taken to protect the manufacturing area from any potential contamination.
1.3 The manufacturing premise should not have direct access to any residential area.
2 LAYOUT AND DESIGN OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES
As far as possible, the layout of the food establishment shall be such that food preparation / manufacturing
processes are not amenable to cross-contamination from other pre and post manufacturing operations like goods receiving,
pre-processing (viz. packaging, washing / portioning of ready-to-eat food etc).
2.1Floors, ceilings and walls must be maintained in a sound condition to minimize the accumulation of dirt,
condensation and growth of undesirable moulds. They should be made of impervious material and should be smooth and
easy to clean with no flaking paint or plaster.
2.2Doors shall also be made of smooth and non-absorbent surfaces so that they are easy to clean and wherever
necessary, disinfect.
2.3The floor of food processing / food service area shall have adequate and proper drainage and shall be easy to
clean and where necessary, disinfect.  Floors shall be sloped appropriately to facilitate drainage and the drainage shall
flow in a direction opposite to the direction of food preparation / manufacturing process flow.
2.4Adequate control measures should be in place to prevent insects and rodents from entering the processing area
from drains.
2.5Windows, doors & all other openings to outside environment shall be well screened with wire-mesh or insect-
proof screen as applicable to protect the premise from fly and other insects / pests / animals & the doors be fitted with
automatic closing springs. The mesh or the screen should be of such type which can be easily removed for cleaning.
2.6No person shall manufacture, store or expose for sale or permit the sale of any article of food in any premises not
effectively separated to the satisfaction of the licensing authority from any privy, urinal, sullage, drain or place of storage
of foul and waste matter.
3 EQUIPMENT & CONTAINERS
3.1Equipment and containers that come in contact with food and used for food handling, storage, preparation,
processing, packaging and serving shall be made of corrosion free materials  which do not impart any toxicity to the food
material and should be easy to clean and /or disinfect (other than disposable single use  types).
3.2Equipment and utensils used in the preparation of food shall be kept at all times in good order and repair and in
a clean and sanitary condition. Such utensil or container shall not be used for any other purpose.
3.3  Every utensil or container containing any food or ingredient of food intended    for sale shall at all times be either
provided with a properly fitted cover/lid or with a clean gauze net or other material of texture sufficiently fine to protect the
food completely from dust, dirt and flies and other insects.

[Page 26]
90 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.4  No utensil or container used for the manufacture or preparation of or containing any food or ingredient of food
intended for sale shall be kept in any place in which such utensil or container is likely by reason of impure air or dust or any
offensive, noxious or deleterious gas or substance or any noxious or injurious emanations, exhalation, or effluvium, to be
contaminated and thereby render the food noxious.
3.5 Equipment shall be so  located, designed and fabricated  that it permits necessary maintenance and cleaning
functions as per its intended use and facilitates good hygiene practices inside the premise including monitoring and audit.
3.6Appropriate facilities for the cleaning and disinfecting of equipments and instruments and wherever possible
cleaning in place (CIP) system shall be adopted.
3.7Equipment and containers for waste, by-products and inedible or dangerous substances, shall be specifically
identifiable and suitably constructed.
3.8Containers used to hold cleaning chemicals and other dangerous substances shall be identified and stored
separately to prevent malicious or accidental contamination of food.
3.9 If required, a waste water disposal system / effluent treatment plant shall be put in place.
3.10 All items, fittings and equipments that touch or come in contact with  food must be:
z kept in good condition in a way that enables them to be kept clean and wherever necessary, to be
disinfected.
z Chipped enameled containers will not be used. Stainless steel /aluminum / glass containers, mugs,
jugs, trays etc. suitable for cooking and storing shall  be used. Brass utensils shall be frequently provided with
lining.
4 FACILITIES
4.1 Water supply
4.1.1 Only potable water, with appropriate facilities for its storage and distribution shall be used as an
ingredient in processing and cooking.
4.1.2 Water used  for food handling, washing,  should be of such quality that it does not introduce any hazard
or contamination to render the finished food article unsafe.
4.1.3 Water storage tanks shall be cleaned periodically and records of the same shall be maintained in a
register.
4.1.4 Non potable water can be used provided it is intended only for cleaning of equipment not coming in
contact with food, which does not come into contact with food steam production, fire fighting & refrigeration
equipment and provided that pipes installed for this purpose preclude the use of this water for other purposes and
present no direct or indirect risk of contamination of the raw material, dairy products or food products so processed,
packed & kept in the premise.
4.1.5 Non potable water pipes shall be clearly distinguished from those in use for potable water.
4.2 For Cleaning Utensils / Equipments
Adequate facilities for cleaning, disinfecting of utensils and equipments shall be provided. The facilities must
have an adequate supply of hot and cold water if required.
4.3 Washing of Raw materials
Adequate facilities for washing of raw food should be provided. Every sink (or other facilities) for washing
food must have an adequate supply of hot and/or cold water. These facilities must be kept clean and, where
necessary, disinfected. Preferably, sinks which are used for washing raw foods shall be kept separate and that
should not be used for washing utensils or any other purposes.
4.4 Ice and Steam
Ice and steam used in direct contact with food shall be made from potable water and shall comply with
requirements specified under 4.1.1. Ice and steam shall be produced, handled and stored in such a manner that no
contamination can happen