--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C65
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 34 to Page 35
Word Range: 17173 - 17422
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 34]
98 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.4 The reception area/animal holding yard/ resting yard shall have facilities for watering and examining
animals before they are sent to holding pens/lairage. Animals suspected of contagious or infectious diseases shall
be segregated and kept in separate isolation pens which shall also be provided with arrangements for watering and
feeding. After confirmation for any notifiable disease, the designated Veterinary Authority shall notify the disease
as per the existing procedures. The resting yard must have overhead protective shelter.(This is not mandatory for
registration category)
3.5 The lairage shall be adequate in size for the number of animals to be laired.
3.6 Separate space shall be provided for stunning (Wherever applicable), for collection of blood and for
dressing of the carcasses. The slaughtering of an animal shall not be done in the sight of other animals. The
dressing of the carcass shall not be done on the floor. Suitable hoists will be provided to hang the carcass before it
is eviscerated.
3.7 All the floors in lairage, slaughter halls, work rooms, hanging rooms shall be of impervious and non-
slippery material.
3.8 The internal walls will be paved with impervious glazed tiles up to 1 meter height in case of poultry and
small ruminant animals and 5 meter height in case of large ruminant animals . The walls and floors should be epoxy
coated so as to avoid accumulation/absorption of dust, blood/meat particles, microbial/fungal growth.
3.9 Ceiling or roofs shall be so constructed and finished so as to minimise condensation, mould development,
flaking and accumulation of dirt.
3.10 Suitable and sufficient accommodation shall be provided for segregation, storage and disposal of
condemned meat.
3.11 The establishments / Slaughter Houses shall be so constructed and maintained as to permit hygienic
production.
3.12 Windows, doors and other openings suited to screening shall be fly proof. All doors shall have strong
springs so that they may close automatically.
3.13 All operations in connection with the preparation or packing of meat / meat food products shall be carried
out under hygienic conditions. No portion of the establishments / Slaughter Houses premises shall ever be used for
living or sleeping purposes unless it is separated from the factory by a wall.
3.14 There shall be efficient drainage and plumbing systems and all drains and gutters shall be properly and
permanently installed. There shall be provision for the disposal of refuse.
3.15 The drainage system for blood shall either be underground with facility for easy cleaning or a portable
receptacle with lid. All drainages will have traps and screens so as to prevent entry of scavengers like rats, mice,
vermin etc.
3.16 The rooms and compartments where edible products are handled shall be separate and distinct from the
rooms and compartments for inedible products.
3.17 Suitable and separate space shall be provided for the storage of hides and skins. This room shall have a
separate exit.
3.18 A constant and sufficient supply of clean potable cold water with pressure hose pipes and supply of hot
water should be made available in the slaughter hall during working hours.
3.19 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided for persons working in the slaughter house for changing
their clothes and cleaning their footwear, and cleaning their hands before entering rooms used for the preparation
and storage of meat.
3.20 Provision for latrines, toilets and change rooms will be made . Sufficient number of latrines, urinals,
washbasins and bathrooms for each sex shall be provided.
3.21 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided in convenient places within the slaughter house for the
sterilisation of knives and sharpner (mushtala) and other equipment used in the slaughter house. The knives and
sharpner (mushtala) shall be of stainless steel only.
3.22 Whenever cooking is done on open fire, chimneys shall be provided for removal of smoke and soot.
3.23 Whenever the dressed meat is not used up for the preparation of meat food products and some portion
has to be stored without further immediate processing, such storage shall be in a room maintained at 0° C to 2°C.

[Page 35]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 99
3.24 All slaughter house refuse and waste materials will be suitably processed to prepare animal bye products
or dumped in pits that are suitably covered so as to prevent its access to scavengers. For large slaughter houses, a
suitable provision of  Effuent Treatment Plant will be made.
3.25 In case of small slaughter houses, waste material should be composted which can be used for manure
purpose and in case of large slaughter houses, waste material should be rendered (cooked) in a rendering plant to
produce meat, bone meal and inedible fats.
3.26 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided for the isolation of meat requiring further examination
by the authorised veterinary officer in a suitable laboratory (within the premises of the slaughter house).
3.27 Consistent with the size of the factory and volume and variety of meat food products manufactured, a
laboratory shall be provided, equipped and staffed with qualified (chemist/analyst and Veterinary Microbiologist)
and trained personnel. The licensing authority shall accord approval of the laboratory after inspection.
3.28 The Chemist/analyst shall have passed graduation with Chemistry as one subject and the. Veterinary
Microbiologist shall be a qualified veterinarian with two years of experience in Meat analysis or having degree of
Master in Veterinary Public Health with specialization in Meat Hygiene.
3.29. Adequate natural or artificial lighting should be provided throughout the abattoir/ meat processing unit.
Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than 540 Lux (50 foot
candles) at all inspection points, 220 Lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms and 110 Lux (10 foot candles) in other areas.
Light bulbs and fixtures suspended over meat in any stage of production should be of safety type and protected to
prevent contamination of meat in case of breakage. As far as possible meat inspection shall be carried out in day
light. Every abattoir shall be provided with well distributed artificial light.
4. Sanitary Practices:
4.01 Every part of the internal surface above the floor or pavement of such slaughter house shall be washed
thoroughly with hot lime wash within the first 10 days of March, June, September and December. Every part of the
floor or pavement of the slaughter house and every part of the internal surface of every wall on which any blood or
liquid refuse or filth may have been spilt or splashed or with which any offensive or noxious matter have been
brought into contact during the process of slaughtering, dressing and cutting, shall be thoroughly cleaned, washed
with water, wiped/dried and disinfectant within three hours after the completion of slaughter.
4.02 Rooms and compartments in which animals are slaughtered or any product is processed or prepared shall
be kept sufficiently free from steam, vapours and moisture and obnoxious odours so as to ensure clean and hygienic
operations. This will also apply to overhead structures in those rooms and compartments.
4.03 All parts of the establishments / Slaughter Houses shall always be kept clean, adequately lighted and
ventilated and shall be regularly cleaned, and disinfected. The floorings shall be impervious and washed daily. Lime
washing, colour washing or painting as the case may be, shall be done at least once in every twelve months.
4.04 All yards, outhouses, stores and all approaches to the establishments / Slaughter Houses shall always be
kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
4.05 Suitable and sufficient receptacles furnished with closely fitted covers shall be provided for collection
and removal of all garbage, filth and refuse from the slaughter house at a convenient time to a place away from the
factory for disposal.
4.06 All blood , manure, garbage, filth or other refuse from any animal slaughtered and the hide, fat, viscera and
offal there from, shall be removed from the slaughter house within 8 hours after the completion of the slaughtering
and in such a manner and by such means as will not cause nuisance at the premises or elsewhere. Every such vessel
or receptacle shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected immediately after use and shall be kept thoroughly clean
when not in actual use.
4.07 The inner side of the skin shall not be rubbed or caused to be rubbed upon the ground within any portion
of the slaughter hall. Hides and skins shall not be dragged within the slaughter hall. No gut-scraping, tripe cleaning,
manufacture or preparation of meat food products, household washing of clothes or work of any nature other than
is involved in the slaughter and dressing of the carcass shall be permitted in any slaughter hall except in the
adjuncts to the slaughter hall intended for these products and purposes.
4.08 The premises shall be cleaned thoroughly with disinfectants, one day in advance of production of meat
food products and the equipments shall be sterilized/sanitized before use. The rooms and compartments in which