--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C92
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 44
Word Range: 24392 - 24641
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 44]
108 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.5.5 Lighting - Adequate natural or artificial lighting should be provided throughout the meat processing
unit. Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than
 540 Lux (50 foot candles) at all inspection points.
 220 Lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms.
 110 Lux (10 foot candles) in other areas.
Light bulbs and fixtures suspended over meat in any stage of production should be of a safety type and
protected to prevent contamination of meat in case of breakage.
3.6 Ventilation - V entilation should be provided to prevent excessive heat, steam condensation, dust and to remove
contaminated air. The direction of the air flow should never be from a dirty area to clean area. V entilation openings should
be provided with an insect screen or other protective enclosure of non-corrodible material. Screens should be easily
removable for cleaning.
4. Equipment and Utensils :
4.1 Materials - All equipments, implements and utensils used in establishments which come into contact with
exposed meat and meat products should present a smooth impervious surface and be resistant to corrosion and should be
made of material which is non-toxic, does not transmit odour or taste, is free from pits and crevices, is non-absorbent and
capable of withstanding repeated exposure to normal cleaning and disinfection. Such equipment should be so constructed
that they may be easily cleaned.
4.2 Sanitary Design, Construction and Installation:
4.2.1 All equipments and utensils should be so designed and constructed as to prevent hygiene hazards and
permits easy and thorough cleaning and disinfection and where practicable be visible for inspection. Stationary
equipment should be installed in such a manner as to permit easy access and thorough cleaning.
4.2.2 Containers for inedible material and waste should be leak proof, constructed of non-corrosive metal or
other suitable impervious materials which should be easy to clean or disposable and where appropriate, able to be
closed securely; and
4.2.3 All refrigerated spaces should be equipped with temperature measurement or recording devices.
4.3 Equipment Identification - Equipment and utensils used for inedible material or waste should be so
identified and should not be used for edible products.
5. Hygiene Requirements :
5.1 Maintenance. The buildings, rooms, equipment and all other physical facilities of the meat processing unit,
including drains, should be maintained in good repair and in orderly condition. Except for rooms where meat processing
or cleaning operations are performed, they should be free from steam, vapour and surplus water.
5.2 Cleaning and Disinfection - Cleaning and disinfection should meet the following requirements :
(i) Amenities provided for the use of employee and the inspection service including changing facilities, toilets
and the inspection office space should be kept clean at all times.
(ii) If rooms, intended and most of the time used for the handling, preparation, processing, packaging on
storage of meat, are used for any other food preparation purposes, then cleaning and disinfection are necessary
immediately before and after such use.
(iii) The temperature in rooms for boning out and trimming should be controlled and held suitably low, unless
cleaning of equipment and utensils are carried out at least every four hours;
(iv) To prevent contamination of meat, all equipments, implements, tables, utensils including knives, cleaves,
knife pouches, saws, mechanical instruments and containers should be cleaned at frequent intervals during the day
and immediately cleaned and disinfected whenever they come into contact with diseased material, infective material
or otherwise become contaminated. They shall also be cleaned and disinfected at the conclusion of each working
day.
(v) If any skip or trolley or any container used in a department where edible material is handled, enters an area
where inedible material is handled it should be cleaned and disinfected immediately before re-entering the edible
department.