--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C55
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 30 to Page 31
Word Range: 14392 - 14641
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 30]
94 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
carried out without posing a threat to the safety or suitability of food. Records of pesticides / insecticides used
along with dates and frequency shall be maintained.
10 PERSONAL HYGIENE
10.1 Health Status
10.1.1 Personnel known, or believed, to be suffering from, or to be a carrier of a disease or illness likely to be
transmitted through food, shall not be allowed to enter into any food handling area . The Food Business shall
develop system, whereby any person so affected, shall immediately report illness or symptoms of illness to the
management and medical examination of a food handler shall be carried out apart from the periodic checkups, if
clinically or epidemiologically indicated.
10.1.2 Arrangements shall be made to get the food handlers / employees of the establishment medically
examined once in a year to ensure that they are free from any infectious, contagious and other communicable
diseases. A record of these examinations signed by a registered medical practitioner shall be maintained for inspection
purpose.
10.1.3 The factory staff shall be compulsorily inoculated against the enteric group of diseases as per
recommended schedule of the vaccine and a record shall be kept for inspection.
10.1.4 In case of an epidemic, all workers are to be vaccinated irrespective of the scheduled vaccination.
10.2 Personal Cleanliness
10.2.1 Food handlers shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. The food business shall provide to
all food handlers adequate and suitable clean protective clothing, head covering, face musk, gloves and footwear
and the food business shall ensure that the food handlers at work wear only clean protective clothes, head covering
and footwear every day.
10.2.2 Food handlers shall always wash their hands with soap and clean potable water, disinfect their hands
and then dry with hand drier or clean cloth towel or disposable paper at the beginning of food handling activities
immediately after handling raw food or any contaminated material, tools, equipment or work surface, where this
could result in contamination of other food items or after using the toilet.
10.2.3 Food handlers engaged in food handling activities shall refrain from smoking, spitting, chewing, sneezing
or coughing over any food whether protected or unprotected and eating in food preparation and food service areas.
10.2.4 The food handlers should trim their nails and hair periodically, do not encourage or practice unhygienic
habits while handling food.
10.2.5 Persons working directly with and handling raw materials or food products shall maintain high standards
of personal cleanliness at all times. In particular:
a) they shall not smoke, spit, eat or drink in areas or rooms where raw materials and food products are
handled or stored;
b) wash their hands at least each time work is resumed and whenever contamination of their hands has
occurred; e.g. after coughing / sneezing, visiting toilet, using telephone, smoking etc.
c) avoid certain hand habits - e.g. scratching nose, running finger through hair, rubbing eyes, ears and
mouth, scratching beard, scratching parts of bodies etc.- that are potentially hazardous when associated with
handling food products, and might lead to food contamination through the transfer of bacteria from the
employee to product during its preparation. When unavoidable, hands should be effectively washed before
resuming work after such actions.
10.3 Visitors
10.3.1 Generally visitors should be discouraged from going inside the food handling areas. Proper care has to
be taken to ensure that food safety & hygiene is not getting compromised due to visitors in the floor area.
10.3.2 The Food Business shall ensure that visitors to its food manufacturing, cooking, preparation, storage
or handling areas must wherever appropriate, wear protective clothing, footwear and adhere to the other personal
hygiene provisions envisaged in this section.

[Page 31]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 95
11 PRODUCT INFORMA TION AND CONSUMER AWARNESS
 All packaged food products shall carry a label and requisite information as per provisions of Food Safety and Standards
Act, 2006 and Regulations made there under so as to ensure that adequate and accessible information is available to the
each person in the food chain to enable them to handle, store, process, prepare and display the food products safely and
correctly and that the lot or batch can be easily traced and recalled if necessary.
12 TRAINING
12.1 The Food Business shall ensure that all food handlers are aware of their role and responsibility in protecting
food from contamination or deterioration. Food handlers shall have the necessary knowledge and skills which are relevant
to food processing / manufacturing, packing, storing and serving so as to ensure the food safety and food quality.
12.2 The Food Business shall ensure that all the food handlers are instructed and trained in food hygiene and food
safety aspects along with personal hygiene requirements commensurate with their work activities, the nature of food, its
handling, processing, preparation, packaging, storage, service and distribution.
12.3 Periodic assessments of the effectiveness of training, awareness of safety requirements and competency level
shall be made, as well as routine supervision and checks to ensure that food hygiene and food safety procedures are being
carried out effectively.
12.4 Training programmes shall be routinely reviewed and updated wherever necessary.
 PART-III
(See Regulation 2.1.2.(1)(5))
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators engaged in manufacture,
processing, storing and selling of Milk and Milk Products
In addition to Part-II, the dairy establishment in which dairy based food is being handled, processed, manufactured,
stored, distributed and ultimately sold by the food business operator, and the persons handling them should conform to
the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures and other standard as specified below.
I. SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
1. Dairy Establishments shall have the following:
(a) Facilities for the hygienic handling and protection of raw materials and of non-packed or non-wrapped
dairy products during loading and unloading, transport & storing including Bulk Milk cooling facilities.
(b) Special watertight, non-corrodible containers to put raw materials or dairy products intended for human
consumption. Where such raw materials or dairy products are removed through conduits, these shall be constructed
and installed in such a way so as to avoid any risk of contamination of other raw materials or dairy products;
(c) a waste water disposal system which is hygienic and approved ;
(d) facilities for cleaning & disinfecting of tanks used for transporting dairy products and raw milk. These
containers have to be cleaned after every use.
2. The occupier of a dairy establishment shall take appropriate measures to avoid cross-contamination of dairy
products in accordance with the cleaning program as specified in point 9.1 of Part II.
3. Where a dairy establishment produces food stuffs containing dairy products together with other ingredients,
which have not undergone heat treatment or any other treatment having equivalent effect, such dairy products and
ingredients shall be stored separately to prevent cross-contamination.
4. The production of heat-treated milk or the manufacture of milk-based products, which might pose a risk of
contamination to other dairy products, shall be carried out in a clearly separated working area.
5. Equipment, containers and installations which come into contact with dairy products or perishable raw materials
used during production shall be cleaned and if necessary disinfected according to a verified and documented cleaning
programme.
6. Equipment, containers, instruments and installations which come in contact with microbiologically stable dairy
products and the rooms in which they are stored shall be cleaned and disinfected according to a verified and documented
Food Safety management programme drawn up by the owner/occupier of the dairy establishment.