--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C52
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 29 to Page 30
Word Range: 13642 - 13891
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 29]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 93
conveyances and / or containers used for transporting / serving foodstuffs shall be non toxic, kept clean and maintained
in good condition in order to protect foodstuffs from any contamination.
5.5.3 Receptacles in vehicles and / or containers shall not be used for transporting anything other than foodstuffs
where this may result in contamination of foodstuffs. Where the same conveyance or container is used for transportation
of different foods, or high risk foods such as fish, meat, poultry, eggs etc., effective cleaning and disinfections shall be
carried out between loads to avoid the risk of cross- contamination. For bulk transport of food, containers and conveyances
shall be designated and marked for food use only and be used only for that purpose.
6 Management and Supervision
6.1 A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the processing of food as well as its packing, despatch and
storage will be developed for proper management which in turn would help in identifying any problem and the exact point,
so that damage control would be faster.
6.2 The Food Business shall ensure that technical managers and supervisors have appropriate qualifications,
knowledge and skills on food hygiene principles and practices to be able to ensure food safety and quality of its products,
judge food hazards, take appropriate preventive and corrective action, and to ensure effective monitoring and supervision.
7 Food Testing Facilities
7.1 A well equipped, laboratory for testing of food materials / food for physical, microbiological and chemical
analysis in accordance with the specification/standards laid down under the rules and regulations shall be in place inside
the premise for regular / periodic testing and when ever required.
7.2 In case of any suspicion or possible contamination, food materials / food shall be tested before dispatch from the
factory.
7.3 If there is no in house laboratory facility, then regular testing shall be done through an accredited lab notified by
FSSAI . In case of complaints received and if so required, the company shall voluntarily do the testing either in the in-
house laboratory or an accredited lab or lab notified by FSSAI.
8 Audit, Documentation and Records
8.1 A periodic audit of the whole system according to the SOP shall be done to find out any fault / gap in the GMP
/ GHP system.
8.2 Appropriate records of food processing / preparation, production / cooking, storage, distribution, service, food
quality, laboratory test results, cleaning and sanitation, pest control and product recall shall be kept and retained for a
period of one year or the shelf-life of the product, whichever is more.
9 SANITA TION AND MAINTENANCE OF ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES
9.1 Cleaning and Maintenance
9.1.1 A cleaning and sanitation programme shall be drawn up and observed and the record thereof shall be
properly maintained, which shall indicate specific areas to be cleaned, cleaning frequency and cleaning procedure
to be followed, including equipment and materials to be used for cleaning. Equipments used in manufacturing will be
cleaned and sterilized at set frequencies.
9.1.2 Cleaning chemicals shall be handled and used carefully in accordance with the instructions of the
manufacturer and shall be stored separately away from food materials, in clearly identified containers, to avoid any
risk of contaminating food.
9.2 Pest Control Systems
9.2.1 Food establishment, including equipment and building shall be kept in good repair to prevent pest
access and to eliminate potential breeding sites. Holes, drains and other places where pests are likely to gain access
shall be kept in sealed condition or fitted with mesh / grills / claddings or any other suitable means as required and
animals, birds and pets shall not be allowed to enter into the food establishment areas/ premises.
9.2.2 Food materials shall be stored in pest-proof containers stacked above the ground and away from walls.
9.2.3 Pest infestations shall be dealt with immediately and without adversely affecting the food safety or
suitability. Treatment with permissible chemical, physical or biological agents, within the appropriate limits, shall be

[Page 30]
94 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
carried out without posing a threat to the safety or suitability of food. Records of pesticides / insecticides used
along with dates and frequency shall be maintained.
10 PERSONAL HYGIENE
10.1 Health Status
10.1.1 Personnel known, or believed, to be suffering from, or to be a carrier of a disease or illness likely to be
transmitted through food, shall not be allowed to enter into any food handling area . The Food Business shall
develop system, whereby any person so affected, shall immediately report illness or symptoms of illness to the
management and medical examination of a food handler shall be carried out apart from the periodic checkups, if
clinically or epidemiologically indicated.
10.1.2 Arrangements shall be made to get the food handlers / employees of the establishment medically
examined once in a year to ensure that they are free from any infectious, contagious and other communicable
diseases. A record of these examinations signed by a registered medical practitioner shall be maintained for inspection
purpose.
10.1.3 The factory staff shall be compulsorily inoculated against the enteric group of diseases as per
recommended schedule of the vaccine and a record shall be kept for inspection.
10.1.4 In case of an epidemic, all workers are to be vaccinated irrespective of the scheduled vaccination.
10.2 Personal Cleanliness
10.2.1 Food handlers shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. The food business shall provide to
all food handlers adequate and suitable clean protective clothing, head covering, face musk, gloves and footwear
and the food business shall ensure that the food handlers at work wear only clean protective clothes, head covering
and footwear every day.
10.2.2 Food handlers shall always wash their hands with soap and clean potable water, disinfect their hands
and then dry with hand drier or clean cloth towel or disposable paper at the beginning of food handling activities
immediately after handling raw food or any contaminated material, tools, equipment or work surface, where this
could result in contamination of other food items or after using the toilet.
10.2.3 Food handlers engaged in food handling activities shall refrain from smoking, spitting, chewing, sneezing
or coughing over any food whether protected or unprotected and eating in food preparation and food service areas.
10.2.4 The food handlers should trim their nails and hair periodically, do not encourage or practice unhygienic
habits while handling food.
10.2.5 Persons working directly with and handling raw materials or food products shall maintain high standards
of personal cleanliness at all times. In particular:
a) they shall not smoke, spit, eat or drink in areas or rooms where raw materials and food products are
handled or stored;
b) wash their hands at least each time work is resumed and whenever contamination of their hands has
occurred; e.g. after coughing / sneezing, visiting toilet, using telephone, smoking etc.
c) avoid certain hand habits - e.g. scratching nose, running finger through hair, rubbing eyes, ears and
mouth, scratching beard, scratching parts of bodies etc.- that are potentially hazardous when associated with
handling food products, and might lead to food contamination through the transfer of bacteria from the
employee to product during its preparation. When unavoidable, hands should be effectively washed before
resuming work after such actions.
10.3 Visitors
10.3.1 Generally visitors should be discouraged from going inside the food handling areas. Proper care has to
be taken to ensure that food safety & hygiene is not getting compromised due to visitors in the floor area.
10.3.2 The Food Business shall ensure that visitors to its food manufacturing, cooking, preparation, storage
or handling areas must wherever appropriate, wear protective clothing, footwear and adhere to the other personal
hygiene provisions envisaged in this section.