--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C77
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 38
Word Range: 20173 - 20494
Word Count: 322
--------------------

[Page 38]
102 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.2 Railway wagons shall not accommodate more animals than those specified in IS specifications.
3.3 The speed of truck transporting animals shall not exceed 40 kilometres per hour, avoiding jerks and jolts. The
truck shall not load any other merchandise and shall avoid unnecessary stops on the road.
3.4 For journeys, exceeding 12 hours, the animals shall be transported by railway. Loading shall be done by evening.
4.0 Slaughter:
Animals are slaughtered by being first stunned and then exsanguinated (bled out). Stunning can be effected
through asphyxiating the animals with carbon dioxide, shooting them with a gun or a captive bolt pistol, or shocking them
with electric current.
4.1. Stunning:
Stunning before slaughter should be mandatory. By inducing unconsciousness and insensibility, stunning
can avoid and minimise reactions of fear and anxiety as well as pain, suffering and distress among the animals
concerned. Stunning methods induce temporary loss of consciousness and rely on prompt and accurate sticking
procedures to cause death.
It is important that the equipment utilized for stunning and slaughter is maintained in good working condition
and that all operators involved are well trained and have a positive attitude towards the welfare of animals.
Electrical stunning consists of passing electricity through the brain to produce instantaneous insensibility.
 The following method of slaughter shall be considered humane:—
 (i) Mechanical stunning of cattle may be carried out by one of three methods; captive bolt stunning,
mushroom head percussive stunning and pneumatic percussive stunning. For cattle, pneumatic stunning
should be preferred and the optimum position is that the centre of the stunner should contact the animal at a
point of intersection of lines drawn from the medial corners of the eyes and the base of the ears. The best
position for pigs is on the midline just above eye level, with the host directed down the line of the spinal cord.
The optimum position for sheep and goat is behind the poll, aiming towards the angle of the jaw. If an animal
shows signs of regaining consciousness after the initial stun, the animal must be immediately killed by the use
of a captive bolt gun.
 (ii) Electrical stunning - Electrical Head Stunners may be preferred for sheep and goat where both
electrodes are placed on the head region. Water bath electrical stunning may be used for poultry birds.  A low
and controlled voltage must be maintained so that the stunning will not damage the heart and brain or cause
physical disability and death to the animals.  The minimum current level recommended for stunning are
indicated in the table below.
Species Minimum current levels for head-only stunning
Cattle 1.5 Amps
Calves (bovines of less than 6 month of age) 1.0 Amps
Pigs 1.25 Amps
Sheep and goats 1.0 Amps
Lambs 0.7 Amps
Broilers 100 milli Amps
Turkeys 150 milli Amps
(iii) Gas stunning - Stunning of pigs by exposure to carbon dioxide (CO2) may be preferred. The
concentration of CO2 should be 90% by volume but shall not be less than 80% by volume. Ideally pigs should
be exposed for 3 minutes. Sticking should be done immediately after exit from the gas chamber. Over-crowding
of animals should be avoided in the gas chamber.
5. Precautions for animal welfare:
a. General:
(1) The floor of the slaughter area should not cause slipping or falling of animals.