--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C100
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 47
Word Range: 26512 - 26761
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 47]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 111
3.02 The floor should be made of impervious and non-slippery materials with a slope for easy cleaning and removal
of filth, waste and dirty water. The slope of the floor shall not be less than 5 cm. for a floor of 3 meters.
3.03 All the fittings in the stall should be of non-corroding and non-rusting type.
3.04 All processing tables, racks, shelves, boards, etc. shall have zinc/aluminium/stainless steel/marble-granite top
to facilitate proper cleaning.
3.05 A sign board indicating the type of meat sold shall be displayed prominently. Nothing else but meat should be
sold at the premises.
3.06 The premises should have provision of sewer connection for drainage of wastewater.
3.07 There should be provision of continuous supply of potable water inside the premises. In case the water supply
is from bore well the arrangement for softening of water for making the same potable shall be made in the premises and
intermittent store arrangement should be made.
3.08 The door of the shop should be of self-closing type. The door of the shop should be of dark glass top and be
kept closed. No carcasses should be kept in a manner so as to be seen by the public from outside.
4. V entilation
4.01 The meat shop should be ventilated with facility of cross ventilation and may be provided with at-least one
electric fan and one exhaust fan.
4.02 The rails and hanging hooks, if provided for hanging carcasses, should be of non-corrosive metal. The non-
corrosive hanging hooks for carcasses shall be 30 cm. apart and the distance between rails shall be 60 to 70 cm. depending
upon the size of animals slaughtered and carcasses hanged.
5. Equipment and Accessories
5.01 The meat shop should have suitable arrangement for fly proofing in the form of air-curtains, flytraps, etc.
5.02 It should have display cabinet type refrigerator of size for maintaining a temperature of 4 to 8 degrees C. or
freezing cabinet if the meat is to be stored for more than 48 hours.
5.03 The weighing scales used shall be of a type which obviates unnecessary handling and contamination and the
plate sketch of the scale shall be made of stainless steel or nickel coated
5.04 The knives, tools and hooks used shall be made of stainless steel. Sufficient cupboards or racks should be for
storing knives, hooks, clothes and other equipments.
5.05 There should be a provision of geysers in all the meat shops to have hot water at a temperature not less than 82
degree C to clean the premises and equipment used in meat shop.
5.06 Washbasin made of stainless steel / porcelain shall be provided with liquid soap dispenser or other soap and
nail brush for thorough cleaning of hands.
5.07 The chopping block should be of food-grade synthetic material, which does not contaminate the meat. If the
block is of wooden it should be of hardwood trunk, which is solid enough and should not contaminate the meat.
5.08 A waste bin with a pedal operated cover shall be provided in the premises for collection of waste material.
6. Transportation
6.01 The transportation of carcasses from the slaughter house to the premises shall be done under hygienic
conditions in boxes of adequate size linked with zinc/aluminium/stainless steel or wire gauze meat safes, which must be
washed daily.
6.02 The transportation of carcasses from the slaughter house to the meat shops should be done in insulated
refrigerated vans. Under no circumstances, carcasses will be transported in vehicles used for commuting of human
beings, or in an exposed condition.
7. Pest Control
7.01 The meat shop should have an effective and continuous programme for control of insects, rodents or other
vermin within the premises. The surrounding area of the shop should also be free from insects, birds, rodents and other
vermin.