--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C17
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 45 to Page 46
Word Range: 22769 - 24291
Word Count: 1,523
--------------------

[Page 45]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 109
(vi) Immediately after the cessation of work for the day or at such other times as may be required, the floors
and wails should be cleaned to remove contamination. Floor drains should be kept in good condition and repair with
strainers in place; and
(vii) Roadways and yards in the immediate vicinity of and serving the meat processing unit should be kept
clean.
5.3 Hygiene Control Programme.-It is desirable that each meat processing unit in its own interest designates a single
individual whose duties are diverted from production, to be held responsible for the cleanliness of the meat processing
unit. His staff should be a permanent part of the organisation or employed by the organisation and should be well trained
in the use of special cleaning tools, methods of dismantling the equipment for cleaning and in the significance of
contamination and the hazards involved. A permanent cleaning and disinfection schedule should be drawn up to ensure
that all parts of the meat processing unit are cleaned appropriately and that critical areas, equipment and material and
designed for cleaning and/or disinfection daily or more frequently if required.
5.4 Storage and Disposal of Waste - Waste material should be handled in such a manner so as to exclude contamination
of food or potable water. Precautions should be taken to prevent access to waste by pests. Waste should be removed from
the meat handling and other working areas at intervals and at least daily. Immediately after disposal of the waste, receptacles
used for storage and any equipment which has come into contact with the taste should be cleaned and disinfected. At
least daily the waste storage area should also be cleaned and disinfected.
5.5 Dogs, cats or other pet animals should be not allowed to enter meat processing unit.
6. Pest Control
6.1 There should be an effective and continuous programme for the control of insects, birds, rodents or other
vermin. Meat processing unit and surrounding areas should be regularly examined for evidence of infestation.
6.2 Should pests gain entrance to the meat processing unit or surrounding areas, eradication measures should be
instituted. Control measures involving treatment with physical or chemical or biological agents should only be undertaken
by or under direct supervision of personnel who have a thorough understanding of the potential hazards to health
resulting from the use of these agents, including those which may arise from residues retained in the product. Such
measures should be carried out in accordance with the recommendation of the official agency having jurisdiction and with
the full knowledge of its inspector, and
6.3 Pesticides should only be employed if other precautionary methods cannot be used effectively. Only pesticides
approved for use in the meat processing unit by competent authority should be used and the greatest care should be
exercised to prevent any contamination of the meat equipment or utensils. Before pesticides are applied all meat should be
removed from the room and all equipment and utensils should be thoroughly washed prior to being used again.
6.4 Handling and Storage of Hazardous substances - Pesticides or other substance which may represent a hazard
should be labelled with a warning about their toxicity and use. Except as required for purpose of hygiene such substance
which may contaminate meat packing material and ingredients should be handled and stored in a part of the meat
processing unit which is not used for preparation, processing, handling, packing or storage of meat. They should be
handled and dispensed only by authorised and properly trained personnel. Extreme care should be taken to avoid
contamination of meat. However, materials employed in the construction and maintenance of an establishment may be
used at any time with the approval of Food Safety Officer.
6.5 Personal Effects and Clothing : - Personal effects and clothing should not be deposited in meat handling areas.
6.6 Maintenance Tools - Cleaning and maintenance tools and products should not be stored in meat handling area.
7. Personnel Hygiene and Health Requirements :
7.1 Medical examination - Persons who come into contact with meat in the course of their work should have a medical
examination prior to their employment. Medical examination of a meat handler shall be carried out routinely and when
clinically or epidemiologically indicated, at least once in 12 months.
7.2 Communicable Diseases - The management should take care to ensure that no person, while known or suspected
to be suffering from, or to be a carrier of a disease likely to be transmitted through meat or while afflicted with infected
wounds, skin infections, sores or with diarrhoea, is permitted to work in any area in any capacity in which there is any
likelihood of such a person directly or indirectly contaminating meat with pathogenic microorganisms. Any person so
affected should immediately report to the management that he is ill.

[Page 46]
110 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7.3 Injuries - Any person who is cut or injured should discontinue working with meat and until he is suitably
bandaged should not be engaged in any meat processing unit in the preparation, handling, packing or transportation of
meat. No person working in any meat processing unit should wear exposed bandage unless the bandage is completely
protected by a water proof covering which is conspicuous in colour and is of such a nature that it cannot become
accidentally detached. first aid facilities should be provided for this purpose.
7.4 Washing of Hands : Every person engaged in a meat handling area should wash his hands frequently and
thoroughly with a suitable hand cleaning preparation under running potable water while on duty. Hands should always be
washed before commencing work, immediately after using the toilets, after handling contaminated material and whenever
else necessary. After handling diseased or suspect materials hands should be washed and disinfected immediately.
Notices requiring hand-washing should be displayed.
8. Personnel Cleanliness:
8.1 Every person engaged in an area in meat processing unit where meat is handled should maintain a high degree
of personnel cleanliness while on duty, and should at all times while so engaged wear suitable protective clothing
including head covering and foot wear, all of which should be washed unless designed to be disposed and which should
be maintained in a clean condition consistent with the nature of the work in which the person is engaged.
8.2 Aprons and similar items should not be washed on the floor; and
8.3 Such items should not be left on equipment in the working area.
8.4 Personal Behavior : Any behavior which can potentially contaminate the meat such as eating, use of tobacco,
chewing, spitting, should be prohibited in any part of meat processing unit used for the preparation, handling, packaging
or transportation of meat.
8.5 Visitors: Every person who visits an area in any meat processing unit where meat is handled should wear clean
protective clothing and head cover.
b) Sanitary &Hygienic Requirements for the Retail Meat Shops
For ensuring the hygiene and safety of meat being sold at retail meat shops, the following requirements
should be followed under the supervision of the qualified Veterinary staff.
1. Location of Meat Shop
1. The meat shop / sale outlet should preferably be a unit of meat market located away from Vegetable, fish or other
food markets and shall be free from undesirable odour, smoke, dust or other contaminants. Wherever a meat market is not
available, individual meat shop can be set up considering the above factors, which have a direct bearing on the hygiene
conditions of the premises and health of consumers.
(a) The minimum distance between the licensed meat shop and any place of worship should not be less than
50 meters;
(b) The condition of 100 meters distance will apply in case the premises situated directly opposite to the entry
gate of religious place of any community.
2. All the meat shops located in the vicinity of religious places shall be fitted with black glass doors, which must be
kept closed all times except in case of entry or exit. It must be the responsibility of the meat shop owners to maintain a high
standard of hygiene not only inside the shops, but also in the way leading to the shops road pavements or other adjoining
place, particularly for insanitary materials originating from the meat business for example, blood, part of offal, meat scraps
etc.
2. Size of Meat Shops
2.1 Considering the constraints of commercial space in residential areas in concerned Panchayats / Municipalities
the size of meat shops may vary according to the size of business and activities being carried out there in the meat shops.
2.2 The height of shop in all above categories of meat shops should be not less than 3 meters, while in case of air-
conditioned meat shops, it should not be less than 2.5 meters.
3. Premises
3.01 The premises shall be structurally sound. The walls up to the height of minimum 5 feet from the floor level shall
be made of impervious concrete material (e.g. glazed tiles or hygienic panels, etc.) for easy washing and cleaning purposes.