--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 22 to Page 24
Word Range: 7718 - 9590
Word Count: 1,873
--------------------

[Page 22]
86 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
SCHEDULE - 3
(See Regulation 2.1.3)
FEE FOR GRANT/ RENEWAL OF LICENSE
REGISTRATION / LICENSE FEE PER ANNUM IN RUPEES
1. Fees for Registration Rs 100
2. Fees for License issued by Central
Licensing Authority: Rs 7500
3. Fees for License issued by State Licensing Authority:
1. Manufacturer /Miller
(i) Above 1MT per day Production or  10,001 to 50,000 LPD of milk or
501 to 2500 MT of milk solids per annum Rs. 5000/—
(ii) Below 1 MT of Production or 501 to 10,000 LPD of milk or 2.5 MT to 500 MT
of milk solids per annum Rs.3000/—
2. Hotels -3 Star and above Rs. 5000/—
3. All Food Service providers including restaurants/boarding houses, clubs etc. serving food,
Canteens (Schools, Colleges, Office, Institutions), Caterers, Banquet halls with food catering
arrangements, food vendors like dabba wallas etc Rs.  2000/—
4. Any other Food Business Operator  Rs. 2000/—
The fees paid by any applicant for a license shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Issue of Duplicate registration or License
(1) Where a registration certificate or license is lost, destroyed, torn, defaced or mutilated, the applicant may
apply for a duplicate copy of the registration certificate or license during the validity period, accompanied
with a fee amounting to 10% of the applicable License fee.
(2) On receipt of such an application, the Licensing Authority shall grant a duplicate copy of the registration
certificate or license, as the case may be to the applicant with the word "Duplicate" appearing prominently
thereon.
Mode of Payment
The payment shall be made by the Food Business Operator through Bank draft or online transfer or treasury chalan or any
other suitable means as specified by the Licensing Authority.
Schedule 4
(See Regulation 2.1.2)
General Hygienic and Sanitary practices to be followed by Food Business operators
 It is hereby recognized and declared as a matter of legislative determination that in the field of human nutrition, safe,
clean, wholesome food - is indispensable to the health and welfare of the consumer of the country; that - food is a
perishable commodity susceptible to contamination and adulteration; - and that - basic  sanitary and hygienic conditions
are deemed to be necessary for the production and distribution of milk - Meat products, service establishments etc.
The establishment in which food is being handled, processed, manufactured, stored, distributed by the food business
operator whether holder of registration certificate or a license as per the norms laid down in these regulations and the
persons handling them should conform to the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures  and other
standards as specified below. It shall also be deemed to be the responsibility of the food business operator to ensure
adherence to necessary requirements.
These are the basic - compulsory requirements for ensuring safety of the food manufactured in any premise and FBOs
shall continuously try to improve the sanitary and hygienic conditions at the premises with a goal of attaining India
HACCP standards within a - previously determined period.

[Page 23]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 87
 Part I - General Hygienic and Sanitary practices to be followed by Petty Food Business Operators applying for
Registration
(See Regulation 2.1.1(2))
In case inspection of the units is directed by the Registering or Licensing Authority, the inspection should confirm
that the following measures are adopted by the unit as far as possible:
 SANITARY AND HYGIENIC REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD MANUFACTURER/ PROCESSOR/HANDLER
The place where food is manufactured, processed or handled shall comply with the following requirements:
1. The premises shall be located in a sanitary place and free from filthy surroundings and shall maintain overall
hygienic environment. All new units shall set up away from environmentally polluted areas.
2. The premises to conduct food business for manufacturing should have adequate space for manufacturing
and storage to maintain overall hygienic environment.
3. The premises shall be clean, adequately lighted and ventilated and sufficient free space for movement.
4. Floors, Ceilings and walls must be maintained in a sound condition. They should be smooth and easy to clean
with no flaking paint or plaster.
5. The floor and skirted walls shall be washed as per requirement with an effective disinfectant the premises shall
be kept free from all insects.  No spraying shall be done during the conduct of business, but instead fly swats/
flaps should be used to kill spray flies getting into the premises. Windows, doors and other openings shall be
fitted with net or screen, as appropriate to make the premise insect free The water used in the manufacturing
shall be potable and if required chemical and bacteriological examination of the water shall be done at regular
intervals at any recognized laboratory.
6. Continuous supply of potable water shall be ensured in the premises. In case of intermittent water supply,
adequate storage arrangement for water used in food or washing shall be made.
7. Equipment and machinery when employed shall be of such design which will permit easy cleaning.
Arrangements for cleaning of containers, tables, working parts of machinery, etc. shall be provided.
8. No vessel, container or other equipment, the use of which is likely to cause metallic contamination injurious
to health shall be employed in the preparation, packing or storage of food. (Copper or brass vessels shall have
proper lining).
9. All equipments shall be kept clean, washed, dried and stacked at the close of business to ensure freedom from
growth of mould/ fungi and infestation.
10. All equipments shall be placed well away from the walls to allow proper inspection.
11. There should be efficient drainage system and there shall be adequate provisions for disposal of refuse.
12. The workers working in processing and preparation shall use clean aprons, hand gloves, and head wears.
13. Persons suffering from infectious diseases shall not be permitted to work. Any cuts or wounds shall remain
covered at all time and the person should not be allowed to come in direct contact with food.
14. All food handlers shall keep their finger nails trimmed, clean and wash their hands with soap, or detergent and
water before commencing work and every time after using toilet. Scratching of body parts, hair shall be
avoided during food handling processes.
15. All food handlers should avoid wearing, false nails or other items or   loose jewellery that might fall into food
and also avoid touching their face or hair.
16. Eating, chewing, smoking, spitting and nose blowing shall be prohibited within the premises especially while
handling food.
17. All articles that are stored or are intended for sale shall be fit for consumption and have proper cover to avoid
contamination.
18. The vehicles used to transport foods must be maintained in good repair and kept clean.
19. Foods while in transport in packaged form or in containers shall maintain the required temperature.
20. Insecticides / disinfectants shall be kept and stored separately and `away from food manufacturing / storing/
handling areas.

[Page 24]
88 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
A. SANITARY AND HYGIENIC REQUIREMENTS FOR STREET FOOD VENDORS AND UNITS OTHER THAN
MANUFACTURING/PROCESSING
1. Potential sources of contamination like  rubbish, waste water, toilet facilities, open drains and stray animals
shall be avoided.
2. The surfaces of the Vending carts which come in contact with food or food storage utensils shall be built of
solid, rust/ corrosion resistant materials and kept in clean and good condition They shall be protected from
sun, wind and dust. When not in use, food vending vans shall be kept in clean place and properly protected.
3. Rubbish bin with cover shall be provided by food stall or vending cart owners for any waste generated in the
process of serving and eating by consumers.
4. Working surfaces of vending carts shall be clean, hygienic, impermeable and easy to clean (like stainless
steel), and placed at least 60 to 70 cm. from above ground.
5. Sale points, tables, awnings, benches and boxes, cupboards, glass cases, etc. shall be clean and tidy.
6. Cooking utensils and crockery shall be clean and in good condition. It should not be broken/ chipped.
7. All containers shall be kept clean, washed and dried at the close of business to ensure that there is no growth
of mould/ fungi and infestation.
8. Water used for cleaning, washing and preparing food shall be   potable in nature.
9. Transporting of drinking water (treated water like bottled water, boiled/ filtered water through water purifier
etc.) shall be in properly covered and protected containers and it shall be stored in clean and covered
containers in a protected area away from dust and filth.
10. Cooking, storage and serving shall not be done in utensils of, cadmium, lead, non food grade plastic and other
toxic materials.
11. Utensils shall be cleaned of debris, rinsed, scrubbed with detergent and washed under running tap water after
every operation. Wiping of utensils shall be done with clean cloth. Separate cloths shall be used for wiping
hands and for clearing surfaces, cloth used for floor cleaning will not be used for cleaning surfaces of tables
and working areas and for wiping utensils Person cooking, handling or serving food should use hand gloves
and aprons, where necessary. He shall wear head gear and cover his mouth always while at work.
12. Removing dust or crumb from plates or utensils shall be done by using cloth or wiper into dustbin.
13. The person suffering from infectious disease shall not be permitted to work.
14. All food handlers shall remain clean, wear washed clothes and keep their finger nails trimmed, clean and wash
their hands with soap/ detergent and water before commencing work and every time after touching food or
using toilet.
15. All food handlers should avoid wearing loose items that might fall into food and also avoid touching or
scratching their face, head or hair.
16. All articles that are stored or intended for sale shall have proper cover to avoid contamination.  Food should
be stored only in food grade plastic containers as steel containers to prevent leaking.
17. Eating, chewing, smoking, , spitting and nose blowing shall be prohibited within the premises.
18. Foods shall be prepared or cooked as per the day's requirement to avoid left over which might be used in the
next day without ascertaining its safety for consumption or use in food. Consumables left over shall be kept
in the refrigerator immediately after  their  intended use.
19. Adequate number of racks shall be provided for storage of articles of food, with clear identity of each
commodity. Proper compartment for each class shall also be provided wherever possible so that there is no
cross contamination.
20. Rubbish or garbage bin shall be with a tight cover and shall be cleaned everyday by transferring contents into
designated locations.
21. Vegetarian and non-vegetarian items should be segregated.
22. Fridge should be cleaned at least once a week to remove stains, ice particles and food particles.  The temperature
in the fridge should be in the range of 4°C - 6°C.
23. The location of the vending unit should be in a place approved by the local authorities and not blocking traffic
or pedestrians or near unhygienic locations.