--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C20
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 52 to Page 54
Word Range: 27074 - 28462
Word Count: 1,389
--------------------

[Page 52]
116 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
z after breaks
z after using the toilet
z after cleaning the raw materials or utensils / equipments
3. Street shoes inside the food preparation area should not be worn while handling & preparing food.
4. Food handlers should ensure careful food handling & protect food from environmental exposure.
5. Food handlesr should not handle soiled currency notes to avoid cross contamination.
IV . TRANSPORTA TION AND HANDLING OF FOOD
(1) The vehicle/transportation being used to carry cooked/prepared/processed food should be clean and, dedicated
for this purpose and should not carry anything else.
(2) Time required for transportation should be minimum, to avoid microbial proliferation.
(3) Cooked food served hot should be kept at a temperature of at least 600 C to prevent microbial growth.
(4) Cooked food to be served cold should be kept below 50 C to prevent growth of pathogens.
(5) All foods during transportation must be kept covered and in such a way as to limit pathogen growth or toxin
formation by controlling time of transportation, exposure, temperature control and using safe water for cleaning etc.
(7) Handling of food should be minimal. It should be ensured that utensils, crockery, cutlery and specially hands of
the food handlers/seller are clean and sanitized.
(8) All surplus food and unused thawed food should be discarded.
(9) Food to be kept for cold storage should be distributed in small volumes to ensure uniform cooling.
(10) Dry, fermented and acidified foods should be stored in cool and dry place.
(11) All packaged food viz. sterilized milk, bottled beverages, canned foods etc. should be stored properly during
transportation to ensure that seals remain intact and undamaged.
V . STORAGE
1. It is very important to store food properly for the purpose of food safety. Following things must be ensured:
z Foods should be cooked, stored and kept at right temperature
z Raw meat/poultry should be stored separately from other foods
z Veg. foods should always be stored above non-veg. foods and cooked foods above uncooked foods on
separate racks in the refrigerator.
z Storage temperature of frozen food should be -18oC or below.
z Cooked food to be eaten later should be cooled quickly, and kept it in the refrigerator - It is advisable to
put date on food packages or containers, using stickers or any other way of identification , before
keeping inside the refrigerator to keep track of food prepared date wise and use accordingly to minimise
wastage .
z Storage instructions over food packaging should be followed.
z Dried foods (such as grains and pulses) should be stored off the floor, ideally in sealable containers, to
allow proper cleaning and protection from pests.
Stock rotation
The rule for stock rotation is FIFO (first in, first out) to make sure that older food is used first. This will help to
prevent wastage.
VI. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH RISK FOODS
This section deals selectively with varieties of food which are high risk as per HACCP and may need special
attention. The type of foods covered here are as follows:
1. Cut fruits/salads, fresh juices and beverages

[Page 53]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 117
(1) Fresh fruits /vegetables cut or juiced should be used immediately; however, short storage should be only
under refrigeration in sanitized and properly covered vessels.
(2) Water used in beverages should be potable.
(3) Ice used should be made of potable water only.
(4) Food or beverages should not be stored in the same container used to store the ice intended for consumption.
(5) Juice concentrates must be checked regularly for any fungal growth / change of colour, odour or gas
formation in the bottle.
(6) Juice dispensing machine should be cleaned and rinsed with water regularly.
2. Confectionery products
(1) Prepared confectionery products should be kept in airtight containers and displayed hygienically.
(2) Cream to be used should be stored covered under refrigeration.
(3) Finished products should be refrigerated with proper labels indicating date of expiry.
(4) Products should be properly wrapped/ packaged after proper cooling.
3. Meat, poultry & fish products
(1) Non veg. products/raw materials should be purchased (chilled products temperature should be at 50C or
below and frozen products at -18 deg C or below) from authorized/ licensed slaughter houses/vendors.
(2) Processing area should be cleaned and disinfected promptly.
(3) Preparation and processing of meat, poultry and marine products should be separate.
(4) Non-veg. products are washed with potable water before use.
(5) Non-veg. products are cooked thoroughly (core temperature 750 C) for at least 15 seconds or an effective
time/temperature control e.g. 65 0C for 10 minutes, 70 0C for 2 minutes.
(6) Non-veg. products should be stored covered in refrigerator below the veg. products.
(7) Raw and cooked products should be stored physically separated with cooked products at the top.
(8) All refuse/waste should be promptly removed from preparation area.
4. Water based chutneys, sauces etc.
(1) All fruits/vegetables should be washed properly before processing.
(2) Clean and disinfected chopping boards/grinding stone/machine should be used.
(3) Personal hygiene of food handlers need to be ensured.
(4) Water used in the chutneys should be safe and potable.
(5) Only permitted food additives should be used, if required, and be added in recommended quantities only.
(6) Spoiled products should be discarded immediately after confirmation of spoilage (change in colour/
texture/ odour).
(7) Sauces and chutneys should be stored in glass/food grade plastic containers with proper lids.
(8) Clean and intact containers should be used for storing sauces and chutneys.
(9) Sauces and chutneys should be stored in refrigerator when not in use.
(10) Perishable/uncooked chutneys should be consumed immediately.
5. Foods transported to point of sale from the point of cooking
(1) Food should be reheated more than 740 C before consumption.
(2) Food should be consumed or served for consumption within 4 hours of reheating.
6. Foods with Gravy
(1) Food products should not be stored at room temperature for more than 2 hours during display or sale.

[Page 54]
118 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(2) For prolonged storage, foods should be stored in refrigerators or kept for hot holding at or above 60°C.
(3) No water should be added after cooking/reheating/boiling.
7. Fried Foods
(1) Good quality / branded oils/fats should be used for food preparation, frying etc.
(2) Use packaged oil only.
(3) Use of oils with high trans fats (like vanaspati) should be avoided as far as possible.
(4) Re-heating and reuse of oil should be avoided as far as possible. Avoid using leftover oil wherever
possible.
8. Adding ingredients after cooking
(1) Ingredients added to the cooked food should be thoroughly washed/ cleaned.
(2) After cooking or post cooked mixing, the food should be used immediately.
(3) Garnishes etc., if added, should be prepared using fresh, thoroughly washed and freshly cut vegetables
and used immediately.
Reuse of cooked food is not recommended.
z Potentially hazardous foods and high risk foods such as hollandaise sauce, refried beans, scrambled
eggs and cut fruits are to be discarded.
z All food at banquet setting that has been on display are to be discarded.
z Food kept at more than 60°C during service may be reused, only by following the procedure indicated
below:
z never mix leftover with fresh product. If in doubt, throw out the product.
z Reheat leftover food temperature to more than74°C
9. Thawing of Frozen Products.
Thawing-In Refrigerator
z Items being thawed should be labelled with defrost date to indicate the beginning of 2nd shelf life.
z Thaw food at 5°C or less.
z Temperature controlled thawing is recommended for meat, poultry and fish.
z Any other means of thawing apart from running water and microwave is not allowed.
Thawing In Running Water
Items being thawed should be labelled with date and time.
z Thawing in running water advisable shellfish and seafood.
z Thawing in running water should not exceed 90 minutes.
z Ensure air break between tap and water.
z Use sanitized food grade container.
z Sink must not be used for other purposes during thawing
z After thawing, product must be used within 12 hours.
z Cold running water (from mains) should be at 15°C or less
[F.No. 2-15015/30/2010]
V .N. GAUR,
Chief Executive Officer