--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C60
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 32 to Page 33
Word Range: 15777 - 16026
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 32]
96 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7. Disinfectants and similar substances used shall be used in such a way that they do not have any adverse effects
on the machinery, equipment, raw materials and dairy products kept at the dairy establishment. They shall be in clearly
identifiable containers bearing labels with instructions for their use and their use shall be followed by thorough rinsing of
such instruments and working equipment with potable water, unless supplier's instructions indicate otherwise.
II. PERSONAL HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS
1. The Food Business Operator shall employ those persons only in such an establishment to work directly with and
handle raw materials or dairy products if those persons have proved to the occupier's satisfaction by means of a medical
certificate, on recruitment, that there is no medical impediment to their employment in that capacity.
2. Persons working directly with and handling raw materials or dairy products shall maintain the highest standards
of personal cleanliness at all times. In particular they shall
(a) wear suitable, clean working clothes and headgear which completely encloses their hair;
(b) wash their hands at least each time work is resumed and whenever contamination of their hands has
occurred; e.g. after coughing / sneezing, visiting toilet, using telephone, smoking etc.
(c) cover wounds to the skin with a suitable waterproof dressing. No person with injury on hand, even with
dressing, shall be placed in any product making/handling section.
(d) avoid certain hand habits - e.g. scratching nose, running finger through hair, rubbing eyes, ears and
mouth, scratching beard, scratching parts of bodies etc. that are potentially hazardous when associated with
handling dairy products, and might lead to food contamination through the transfer of bacteria from the employee
to product during its preparation. When unavoidable, hands should be effectively washed before resuming work
after such actions
III. .SANITARY REQUIREMENTS FOR STORAGE
1. Immediately after procuring, raw milk shall be placed in a clean place, which is suitably equipped so as to prevent
any kind of contamination.
2. The cans/ containers made up of mild steel metal and plastic material used for storage and transportation of milk
and milk products shall not be allowed.
3. If raw milk is brought to the dairy plant by a producer or farmer then it shall be ensured that he brings it within four
hours of milking and it shall be cooled as soon as practicable to a temperature of 4ºC or lower and maintained at that
temperature until processed.
4. Where raw milk is collected daily from a producer, it shall be cooled immediately to a temperature of 4ºC to 6ºC or
lower and maintained at that temperature until processed;
5. When the pasteurization process is completed, pasteurized milk shall be cooled immediately to a temperature of
4ºC or lower.
6. Subject to Paragraph 7 below, any dairy product not intended to be stored at ambient temperature shall be cooled
as quickly as possible to the temperature established by the manufacturer of that product as suitable to ensure its
durability and thereafter stored at that temperature.
7. Where dairy products other than raw milk are stored under cooled conditions, their storage temperatures shall be
registered and the cooling rate shall be such that the products reach the required temperature as quickly as possible.
8. The maximum temperature at which pasteurized milk may be stored until it leaves the treatment establishment shall
not exceed 5ºC.
IV . WRAPPING AND PACKAGING
1. The wrapping and packaging of dairy products shall take place under satisfactory hygienic conditions and in
rooms provided for that purpose.
2. The manufacture of dairy products and packaging operations may take place in the same room if the following
conditions are satisfied: —
(a) The room shall be sufficiently large and equipped to ensure the hygiene of the operations;
(b) the wrapping and packaging shall have been brought to the treatment or processing establishment in
protective cover in which they were placed immediately after manufacture and which protects the wrapping or

[Page 33]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 97
packaging from any damage during transport to the dairy establishment, and they shall have been stored there
under hygienic conditions in a room intended for that purpose;
(c) the rooms for storing the packaging material shall be free from vermin and from dust which could constitute
an unacceptable risk of contamination of the product and shall be separated from rooms containing substances
which might contaminate the products. Packaging shall not be placed directly on the floor;
(d) packaging shall be assembled under hygienic conditions before being brought into the room, except in the
case of automatic assembly or packaging, provided that there is no risk of contamination of the products;
(e) packaging shall be done without delay. It shall be handled by separate group of staff having experience in
handling and product wrapping and
(f) immediately after packaging, the dairy products shall be placed in the designated rooms provided for
storage under required temperature.
3. Bottling or filling of containers with heat-treated milk and milk product shall be carried out hygienically.
4. Wrapping or packaging may not be re-used for dairy products, except where the containers are of a type which
may be re-used after thorough cleaning and disinfecting.
5. Sealing shall be carried out in the establishment in which the last heat-treatment of milk or liquid milk-based
products have been carried out, immediately after filling, by means of a sealing device which ensures that the milk is
protected from any adverse effects of external origin on its characteristic. The sealing device shall be so designed that
once the container has been opened, the evidence of opening remains clear and easy to check.
PART IV
(See Regulation 2.1.2 (1)(5))
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators engaged in manufacture,
processing, storing and selling of Meat and Meat Products
A. Slaughter House
Food Business Operator which slaughters large animals and small animals including sheep and goat or poultry birds
within the premises of his factory for production of meat/ meat products for supply / sale/ distribution to the public shall
comply with the following requirements:—
1. General Requirements:
1.1 No Objection Certificate to be obtained from local Authority before grant of license.
2. Location of Premises:
Such establishments / Slaughter Houses should be linked to a meat market located away from V egetable, fish
or other food markets and shall be free from undesirable odour, smoke, dust or other contaminants. The premises
shall be located at elevated level in a sanitary place.
3. Premise requirements:
3.1 The slaughter house shall have a reception area/animal holding yard/resting yard, lairage, slaughter hall,
side halls for hide collection, paunch collection, offals collection, and separation, holding room for suspected/
condemned carcass, by-product harvesting, refrigeration room/cold room etc.
3.2 Every such establishment / Slaughter House shall make separate provision in the slaughter hall for the
slaughter of different species which are proposed to be slaughtered (like large animal viz; Cattle and Buffalo, Pigs
and small animals like Sheep & Goat) and for different methods of slaughter (like Halal, Jewish and Jhatka). After
every type of operation the slaughter house shall be cleaned, washed wiped/dried and sanitized thoroughly.
3.3 The slaughter house shall have separation between clean and dirty sections and shall be so organized that
from the introduction of a live animal into the slaughter house up to the emergence of meat and offal classed as fit
for human consumption there shall be a continuous forward movement without any possibility of reversal, intersection
or overlapping between the live animal meat, and between meat and bye products or waste.