--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-046-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-046
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 275
Word Count: 275
--------------------

The study warned that continued paddy expansion could increase surplus pressures and financial burdens, while encouraging farmers to adopt high-value, less water-intensive crops for long-term sustainability. Since its formation as a State in 2014, Telangana’s rice story has been phenomenal. And this has become a challenge now, as it is finding it difficult to manage its rice surplus season after season. This poses another serious challenge – monocropping. Barring cotton, which competes with the paddy area in the kharif season, most of the other crops barely cross the two-digit percentage acreage area. Over the past decade, rice output in the State has nearly tripled, from about 66 lakh tonnes in 2013-14 to 1.70 crore tonnes in 2024-25. The State, which was predominantly rainfed, emerged as one of the top-3 rice-producing regions in the country, contributing nearly 12 per cent to the national output. The paddy area expanded from 19.95 lakh hectares to 47 lakh ha during the period. The entire rice area is irrigated, thanks to new projects and favourable monsoon rains, which have increased water availability. Yield growth, however, has remained stagnant. Prof. Jayashankar Telangana Agricultural University (PJTAU)’s Centre for Sustainable Agriculture and Development Studies (C-SAS) has released a set of recommendations to address the rice situation in the State. The paper, Managing Telangana’s Rice Surplus: Opportunities for Export Earnings, Sustainability and Crop Diversification, was prepared by Samarendu Mohanty (Professor of Practice & Founding Director, C-SAS, PJTAU) and Aldas Janaiah, Vice-Chancellor of PJTAU. The paper, submitted to the State government recently, outlined short- and long-term measures to transition the State from a procurement-driven, surplus-accumulating system to a market-aligned, diversified, and fiscally resilient agricultural model.