--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-100-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-100
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 1676 - 2031
Word Count: 356
--------------------

[Page 4]
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 4 of 4 
 
RESPECT AND DUTY OF CARE 
All Suppliers are required to act and interact with respect and in good faith with employees of DHL Group.  
Suppliers are to exercise due care in the use of property and equipment entrusted to them, as if the property is their own. 
When using property or materials that carry a DHL Group trademark or brand, all suppliers shall exercise particular care 
as any of their actions or activities may be associated with DHL Group. Any unauthorized use of branded or trademarked 
materials or equipment is to be avoided. It is considered a misuse of DHL Group branded or trademarked materials and 
equipment if even an appearance of impropriety can be inferred. 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT  
DHL Group reserves the right to check compliance with the requirements of this SCoC, for example through self-
assessments and audits either by DHL Group or a third party. The supplier shall strive for continuous improvement, such 
as setting measurable targets on the environment, working conditions or diversity, and reporting on progress for 
sustainability. In case a breach is identified, the supplier shall create an incident report and present a corrective action 
plan. 
The terms and conditions set forth in this Supplier Code of Conduct reflect DHL Group’s values and commitment to its 
customers, the communities which we serve and the protection of the environment. Therefore, any breach of these 
terms and conditions must be cured. Without prejudice to any other contractual remedies DHL Group may be entitled to, 
any failure to cure such a breach immediately will cause DHL Group to consider ending the commercial relationship. 
REPORTING IRREGULARITIES 
In case you wish to report suspected breaches of law, or any violation of this SCoC, you can contact the Compliance 
Management of DHL Group via https://group.dhl.com/incident-reporting-system 
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 
The supplier shall feel encouraged to proactively approach DHL Group with innovative ideas which contribute to further 
social, economic or environmental improvement. DHL Group values the open exchange of new ideas and is willing to 
explore new opportunities jointly with suppliers.