--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-100-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-100
Page Range: Page 2
Word Range: 534 - 783
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 2 of 4 
 
COMPENSATION AND WORKING HOURS  
The supplier shall comply with all applicable local laws and mandatory industry standards regarding working 
hours, including overtime, rest breaks and paid vacation. 
The supplier shall compensate its workers in accordance with local minimum wage legislation and terms of 
applicable collective bargaining agreements as well as with industry standards. The supplier shall pay workers 
in a timely manner and clearly convey the basis on which workers are being paid (i.e. receive employment 
documents in a language they understand). Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be 
allowed, if not legally permitted. 
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
The employees of the supplier must be free to join or not to join a union/employee representation of their 
choice, free from threat or intimidation. The supplier recognizes and respects the right to collective bargaining 
in accordance with applicable local laws. 
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
The supplier shall promote an inclusive work environment that values the diversity of its employees. 
The supplier shall be committed to equal opportunities and not discriminate or tolerate discrimination or 
harassment with respect to gender, ethnic and national origin, race, color, religion, age, disability, sexual 
orientation and identity, or any other characteristic protected by law. 
HEALTH & SAFETY  
We expect our suppliers to strive to implement the standards of occupational health and safety at a high level by 
applying a health and safety management approach appropriate for the business. 
The supplier shall comply with applicable occupational health and safety regulations and provide a work environment 
that is safe and conducive to good health e.g. drinking water, in order to preserve the safety and health of employees, 
safeguard third parties and prevent accidents, injuries and work-related illnesses. This includes regular workplace risk 
assessments and the implementation of adequate hazard control and precautionary measures, including the provision of 
appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Employees are to be adequately educated and trained in health and 
safety issues in a language they understand. 
DATA PROTECTION, INFORMATION SECURITY, AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION 
The supplier shall adhere to applicable data protection laws, including security of personal data, as well as to respective 
regulation, e.g. GDPR, in particular with regard to personal data of customers, consumers, employees and shareholders. 
The supplier shall comply with all said requirements when personal data is collected, recorded, hosted, processed, 
transmitted, used or erased. 
The information security requirements applicable to suppliers with regards to any data entrusted to their control during 
and after their engagement with DHL Group are based on international standards, such as the Code of Practice for 
Information Security Management. Suppliers should take account of the need to protect the confidentiality, integrity and 
availability of information. At all times the required level of information security and control to be ensured by suppliers 
must be commensurate with the sensitivity, value and criticality of the information being processed throughout the 
lifecycle of the information. 
The supplier shall safeguard and make only appropriate use of confidential information. The supplier shall comply with 
any contractual requirements on data protection and information security and shall not disclose any information that is 
not known to the general public. 
BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION 
The supplier shall comply with all applicable national and international anti-corruption laws and regulations. The 
supplier shall not (neither directly nor indirectly) offer, provide or accept anything of value to improperly influence an 
official act or to secure an improper advantage in order to obtain or retain business. This includes so-called facilitation 
payments or other benefits provided to public officials for routine non-discretionary actions.