--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-100-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-100
Page Range: Page 1
Word Range: 251 - 533
Word Count: 283
--------------------

[Page 1]
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 1 of 4 
 
 
 
DHL Group is the world’s leading logistics company. The Group connects people and markets and is an enabler of global trade. It 
aspires to be the first choice for customers, employees and investors worldwide. DHL Group is home to two strong brands: DHL 
offers a comprehensive range of parcel and international express service, freight transport, and supply chain management services, 
as well as e-commerce logistics solutions. Deutsche Post is Europe’s leading postal and parcel service provider. The Group 
contributes to the world by taking action to minimize its environmental footprint, to provide a safe, inclusive and engaging working 
environment, to support the communities it operates in, and to follow trusted, transparent and compliant business practices. 
We are fully aware of our responsibilities because of our activities thus, we have given ourselves a strict set of ethical standards to 
guide us in our business practices.  
We expect all of our suppliers, including subcontractors, i.e. all companies who do business with any company or division of DHL 
Group, to adhere to the same ethical standards. For this purpose, DHL Group has produced this Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), 
which sets the minimum standards for doing business with any Group company or Business Unit. 
LAWS AND ETHICAL STANDARDS 
The supplier shall comply with all laws applicable to its business. The supplier shall support the principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as well as the 1998 International Labor Organization 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, in accordance with national laws and practice. This especially 
applies to: 
HUMAN RIGHTS AND FAIR LABOR PRACTICES 
CHILD LABOR  
The supplier shall not employ children under the legal age of employment in any country or local jurisdiction. 
The supplier shall apply a minimum working age of 15 years, even where local legislation permits younger 
children to be employed. Workers under the age of 18 shall only perform work in accordance with legal 
requirements of their country of employment (e.g. with regards to working time and working conditions) and 
subject to any requirement regarding education or training. 
FORCED LABOR  
The supplier shall not use any form of forced, bonded, compulsory labor or modern forms of slavery. All labor must 
be voluntary. Workers must be allowed to maintain control over their identification documents (e.g. passports, work 
permits or any other personal legal documents). The supplier shall ensure that workers do not pay fees or make any 
payment connected to obtaining employment throughout the hiring process and the employment period. The 
supplier shall be responsible for payment of all fees and expenses (e.g. licenses and levies) relating to workers, where 
legally required. 
Punishment, mental and/or physical coercion as well as any other form of human trafficking are prohibited. 
Disciplinary policies and procedures shall be clearly defined and communicated to the workers. 
 
DHL GROUP SUPPLIER 
CODE OF CONDUCT