--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-100-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-100
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1415 - 1675
Word Count: 261
--------------------

[Page 3]
DHL Group Supplier Code of Conduct – Version 2020.5 – Page 3 of 4 
 
TRADE REGULATION 
The supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, sanctions and customs laws and regulations, including 
Prohibitions & Restrictions ("Trade Laws"). The supplier in particular ensures that the supplier, its beneficial owner(s), all 
its agents and any other subcontractors used by the supplier are not listed on any applicable Denied Party sanctions lists. 
MONEY LAUNDERING & FINANCIAL RECORDS 
The supplier shall comply with applicable laws and regulations designed to combat money laundering activities. The 
supplier shall maintain financial records and reports according to applicable laws and regulations. 
FREE COMPETITION 
The supplier shall comply with applicable competition and anti-trust laws.  
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
A conflict of interest is any personal or financial interest, any business or personal activity or relationship, prior or current 
employment, or any obligation that may interfere with the ability to objectively perform job duties and responsibilities or 
impair independence and objectivity. Such conflict of interest situations include critical relationships such as a 
relationship by blood or marriage, partnership, participation or an investment in business partners or competitors. The 
supplier shall immediately disclose any actual or potential conflict of interest related to its activities with DHL Group. 
ENVIRONMENT  
The supplier shall comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards as well as implement an 
effective system to identify and eliminate potential hazards to the environment.  
We expect our suppliers to strive to support DHL Group’s environmental and climate protection commitments through 
the products and services they deliver, which should be done efficiently by taking the environmental impact into 
consideration. 
DHL Group also expects its suppliers to report relevant data on environmental and climate protection upon request. 
We expect our suppliers to take environmental and climate protection appropriately into account in their own 
operations, for example, by setting climate protection goals for themselves and achieving them. 
CONFLICT MINERALS 
The supplier shall comply with all applicable laws and resulting due diligence obligations with respect to the sourcing of 
minerals and materials from conflict affected regions and high-risk areas, which may contribute to human rights abuses, 
corruption, the financing of armed groups or similar negative effects. 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH 
DHL Group encourages suppliers to give back to their local communities and engage in initiatives and activities that 
reflect the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANNING  
The supplier shall be prepared for any disruptions of its business (e.g. natural disasters, terrorism, supply chain 
disruptions, communicable disease outbreaks – epidemics or pandemics, information security issues, cyber-attacks). 
This preparedness includes business continuity plans that protect both employees as well as the environment from the 
effects of possible serious disruptions that may arise within the domain of operations. 
BUSINESS PARTNER DIALOGUE 
The supplier shall implement equivalent standards e.g. ethical standards, to the ones laid out in this SCoC for their own 
suppliers, as part of fulfilling their contractual obligations.