--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-088-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-088
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 264
Word Count: 264
--------------------

Amrapali mangoes from Jharkhand’s tribal belt exported to Dubai New Delhi: The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA has facilitated the export of two metric tonnes (MT) of Amrapali mangoes, sourced from women-led farmer producer companies in Jharkhand’s tribal areas, to Dubai, according to an official statement issued on Tuesday. The consignment was exported by M/s Fair Exports (India) Pvt. Ltd. for retail distribution across Lulu stores in Dubai, marking another milestone in promoting exports from tribal and women-led farmer collectives. The export consignment comprising premium-quality Amrapali mangoes sourced from three women-led Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs) promoted by Palash – Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) was flagged off on July 3. One metric tonne was sourced from APEDA-registered MVM Baghima Palkot Producer Company Limited and Raidih Agri Producer Company Limited in Gumla district, while the remaining one metric tonne was sourced from Mohanpur Ajeevika Mahila Kisan Producer Society in Deoghar district. The orchards have been developed by tribal women farmers under the Birsa Harit Gram Yojana, implemented in convergence with MGNREGA and supported by the Jharkhand government. The export has delivered significant economic benefits to the participating farmers, with members of the women-led FPCs realising nearly 180 per cent higher returns than prevailing local market prices. The initiative demonstrates the potential of export market access in enhancing farmers’ incomes while encouraging greater participation of women producers in export-oriented agriculture. Each of the participating FPCs has more than 1,500 shareholders and collectively represents over 50,000 member farmers, extending the benefits of the initiative to a large farming community, the statement said.