--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-088-C02
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-088
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 265 - 553
Word Count: 289
--------------------

of the participating FPCs has more than 1,500 shareholders and collectively represents over 50,000 member farmers, extending the benefits of the initiative to a large farming community, the statement said. The export reflects the APEDA’s sustained efforts to develop export-ready farmer collectives through capacity building, quality enhancement and market facilitation. In May, it organised a dedicated capacity-building programme in the Palkot area of Gumla district to sensitise members and Board of Directors of eight Farmer Producer Companies on international quality standards, post-harvest handling practices, and export procedures, enabling them to meet the requirements of premium overseas markets. Representatives from the district offices of Agriculture, Horticulture, JSLPS, District Industries Centre (DIC) and other line departments also participated in the programme, the statement said. Further strengthening its outreach among women entrepreneurs, APEDA’s Regional Office, Kolkata, organised an export-oriented capacity development programme for women entrepreneurs and self-help groups on September 19, 2025, at Baswariya village in Devipur block of Deoghar district. The session focused on creating awareness about APEDA’s mandate, Financial Assistance Scheme, export opportunities, key export procedures, and institutional support available for women entrepreneurs to participate in global agricultural trade. The opinions, views, and thoughts expressed by the readers and those providing comments are theirs alone and do not reflect the opinions of www.mangalorean.com or any employee thereof. www.mangalorean.com is not responsible for the accuracy of any of the information supplied by the readers. Responsibility for the content of comments belongs to the commenter alone. We request the readers to refrain from posting defamatory, inflammatory comments and not indulge in personal attacks. However, it is obligatory on the part of www.mangalorean.com to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments to the concerned authorities upon their request.