--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 3 to Page 5
Word Range: 1390 - 2930
Word Count: 1,541
--------------------

[Page 3]
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the proposed review methodology and
the steps followed for locating the study. Result and discussion of BC are elaborated in
Section 3. Finally, Section 4 concludes the paper by highlighting current research focus and
future research directions.
2. Review methodology
A SLR methodology is proposed to identify the major supply chain issues in SME food
industry. A four-phase SLR methodology (see Figure 1) is applied following the work of
Denyer and Tranfield (2009).
2.1 Research design
The methods of BC, co-word and network analysis are used to answer the following
four research questions, which are appropriate and influence the goal and focus of
the review:
RQ1. What are the major supply chain issues/themes addressed in the SME
food industry?
RQ2. What are the current research trends in the SME FSC?
RQ3. What are the different modelling approaches used in SME FSC?
RQ4. Which food sector has received attention in the literature?
Phase 1: Planning Objective and Research question
Keyword/Search string identification
Selection and screening of articles
Bibliometric analysis
Bibliographic coupling
Co-word analysis using Text mining
Theme identification
Thematic analysis
Food sector Approaches
Research gap and conclusion
Discard paper
No
Yes
Does it fit
the
research?
Phase 2: Locating studies
Phase 3: Data analysis
Phase 4: Results and
recommendation
Source: Adapted from Denyer and Tranfield (2009)
Figure 1.
Review method
21
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026

[Page 4]
2.2 Locating studies and evaluation
The articles for the study are identified and screened after formulating the research questions.
This section summarizes the steps followed for locating the study and its evaluation.
2.2.1 Time horizon . Articles published during 2002 – 2018 were considered for the study.
The works prior to 2002 were excluded due to the limited number of publications on the
supply chain issues in SME food sectors (Mahajan et al., 2017; Siddh et al., 2015). Being the
immediate previous year at the time of the review, we included all articles till the end of
the year 2018.
2.2.2 Selection of database . WoS database from Clarivate Analytics is used to collect the
articles. We selected the WoS database for the following solid reasons. The first reason is to
get a comprehensive result and to ensure the quality of articles. The second WoS database
includes more than 18,000 journals of high impact from six different citation databases.
Third, the retrieved result from WoS can be organized and analysed easily through
bibliometric software tools (Colicchia and Strozzi, 2012).
2.2.3 Search criteria for article selection . As proposed by Fahimnia et al. (2015), a three-
level keyword was used to extract articles as shown in Table II. “OR” connectors were used
to connect keywords in each level, and different levels of keywords were connected by using
“AND” connectors. To find root word plus, we used “*” symbol at the end of some words.
Different terms with their variants were used at each level of the search strings so as to not
limit the database search to a specific aspect of the research domain, as our primary
objective was to identify the major research concepts. For example, Level 1 keywords used
the term “supply chain ” including its variants such as “inventory”, “logistics”, “supply
network” or “value chain ”.
2.2.4 Sorting of articles . In order to include the most relevant articles, a set of inclusion
and exclusion criteria is defined, followed by Newbert (2007) as listed below:
(1) peer-reviewed scientific journals published only in English are included;
(2) articles published during 2002 – 2018 were considered for the study since articles that
met our selection criteria before 2002 were very limited;
(3) selected articles that contain at least one keyword in each level of the search string in
the title, abstract and keywords;
(4) commercial publications, book chapters, proceedings papers, periodicals and
working papers are not included; and
(5) articles that are not relevant to the SME FSC are excluded.
During the initial search, 3,733 articles are retrieved from the WoS database, and after
applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria (1 – 4), a total of 3,040 articles are retained. Both
the authors independently screened the papers on the basis of the title, abstract and
keywords. The papers for which both the authors agreed have been included. In case of any
discrepancy, we included a paper for full-text reading. Specifically, we excluded 1,949
Level 1 “supply chain*” or “inventory” or “logistic*” or “supply network” or “value chain”
Level 2 “small business*” or “sme” or “SMEs” or “small and medium ” or “msme” or “small
firm*” or “small industr*” or “small scale industr*” or “micro business” or “household
business” or “small organisation*” or “small compan*” or “small entit*” or “medium
compan*” or “small enterpri*” or “medium enterpri*” or “family business” or “small
retail*” or “small to medium ” or “farm*”
Level 3 “*food” or “beverage*” or “dairy” or “fruit*” or “vegetable*” or “meat” or “beef” or
“fish” or “halal” or “drinks”
Table II.
Keyword string
22
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026

[Page 5]
articles as irrelevant (criteria 5) with a focus on food and bioenergy (biofuel), the production
process of food, animal welfare, etc., and the remaining 1,091 articles were then shortlisted
for further appraisal.
We adopted a comparative approach to the analysis of the data, in which we divided all
papers into two roughly equal parts (Vogel and Güttel, 2013). Initially, we performed an
analysis of 377 research papers published between 2002 and 2014. Then, we added the rest
of 714 articles and repeated the same analysis from the period 2002 to 2018. By comparing
the result of these two-time sliced articles, it is possible to find the research direction and the
contribution of the recent research articles to the literature on SC in SME food industry.
2.3 Bibliographic coupling (BC) network and cluster analysis
Bibliometric and network analysis tools are used in a systematic review to identify and
cluster significant research concepts. A bibliometric network is a weighted network
consisting of nodes and edges. The node represents a knowledge actor like a research paper,
authors, journal, authors ’ institute/country or keywords. The edge between two nodes
denotes the relationship between them. The five commonly studied edge relationship
includes citation, co-citation, BC, co-author and co-word analysis (Zupic and Cater, 2015). A
BC connects journals, authors or documents with respect to the number of shared
references. Among the bibliometric networks, BC could capture the research dynamics from
past to present, as it includes the most recent contributions (Vogel and Güttel, 2013). The
bibliographic strength between the two articles is defined by the number of items shared by
these two articles in their reference records (Zhao and Strotmann, 2008). Boyack and
Klavans (2010) compared the accuracy of co-citation analysis, BC, direct citation and found
that BC outperforms the other two. In literature, bibliographic analysis tools like CiteSpace,
Pajek, Bibexcel, R, SciMat and Saint are proposed for bibliometric analysis (Cobo and
Herrera, 2011). Among these, BibExcel allows processing the different types of file formats
like Medline format, Scopus RIS format and the WoS plain text format (Persson et al., 2009).
Also, Bibexcel allows data modification or filtering of imported details from various
databases such as WoS and Scopus (Bjurström, 2011). Due to these advantages, BibExcel is
used in this research for the bibliometric analysis.
In order to conduct BC, the plain text format from WoS containing the details of author,
the title of publication, year of publication, abstract and authors affiliation from the
shortlisted 1,091 articles are exported to Bibexcel software. To further map and visualize,
the BC among the 1,091 articles network and cluster analysis tools are used. In literature,
UCINET, Mathematica, Pajek, VOS Viewer and Gephi are the commonly used network
analysis tools. Among these, Gephi is generally used in research projects, given its
simplicity (Fahimnia et al., 2015). Gephi is capable of handling large network data and helps
in filtering, navigating, manipulating and clustering the data. It can also handle a variety of
graph data sets generated in comma-separated values files, Graph and Net file formats. In
this research, the shared references from Bibexcel in .net format were imported to Gephi and
were used for networking and clustering the research articles.
To identify the sub-fields/themes of a research domain, the nodes of a network are
divided into clusters or modules using clustering techniques (Fahimnia et al. , 2015). The
degree of association is strong among members of the same cluster and weak between
members of different clusters. For dividing the network into clusters, the default Louvain
clustering algorithm in the Gephi software is used, which will maximize the modularity
index by iterating each node to all clusters (Rajagopal et al. , 2017). Modularity is an
important metric that provides information about the overall clustering of the networks.
The modularity index is a scalar value between −1 and +1 that measures the density of
links inside the clusters vs the links between the clusters (Fahimnia et al., 2015).
23
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026