--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 5
Word Range: 2403 - 2652
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
articles as irrelevant (criteria 5) with a focus on food and bioenergy (biofuel), the production
process of food, animal welfare, etc., and the remaining 1,091 articles were then shortlisted
for further appraisal.
We adopted a comparative approach to the analysis of the data, in which we divided all
papers into two roughly equal parts (Vogel and Güttel, 2013). Initially, we performed an
analysis of 377 research papers published between 2002 and 2014. Then, we added the rest
of 714 articles and repeated the same analysis from the period 2002 to 2018. By comparing
the result of these two-time sliced articles, it is possible to find the research direction and the
contribution of the recent research articles to the literature on SC in SME food industry.
2.3 Bibliographic coupling (BC) network and cluster analysis
Bibliometric and network analysis tools are used in a systematic review to identify and
cluster significant research concepts. A bibliometric network is a weighted network
consisting of nodes and edges. The node represents a knowledge actor like a research paper,
authors, journal, authors ’ institute/country or keywords. The edge between two nodes
denotes the relationship between them. The five commonly studied edge relationship
includes citation, co-citation, BC, co-author and co-word analysis (Zupic and Cater, 2015). A
BC connects journals, authors or documents with respect to the number of shared
references. Among the bibliometric networks, BC could capture the research dynamics from
past to present, as it includes the most recent contributions (Vogel and Güttel, 2013). The
bibliographic strength between the two articles is defined by the number of items shared by
these two articles in their reference records (Zhao and Strotmann, 2008). Boyack and
Klavans (2010) compared the accuracy of co-citation analysis, BC, direct citation and found
that BC outperforms the other two. In literature, bibliographic analysis tools like CiteSpace,
Pajek, Bibexcel, R, SciMat and Saint are proposed for bibliometric analysis (Cobo and
Herrera, 2011). Among these, BibExcel allows processing the different types of file formats
like Medline format, Scopus RIS format and the WoS plain text format (Persson et al., 2009).
Also, Bibexcel allows data modification or filtering of imported details from various
databases such as WoS and Scopus (Bjurström, 2011). Due to these advantages, BibExcel is
used in this research for the bibliometric analysis.
In order to conduct BC, the plain text format from WoS containing the details of author,
the title of publication, year of publication, abstract and authors affiliation from the
shortlisted 1,091 articles are exported to Bibexcel software. To further map and visualize,
the BC among the 1,091 articles network and cluster analysis tools are used. In literature,
UCINET, Mathematica, Pajek, VOS Viewer and Gephi are the commonly used network
analysis tools. Among these, Gephi is generally used in research projects, given its
simplicity (Fahimnia et al., 2015). Gephi is capable of handling large network data and helps
in filtering, navigating, manipulating and clustering the data. It can also handle a variety of
graph data sets generated in comma-separated values files, Graph and Net file formats. In
this research, the shared references from Bibexcel in .net format were imported to Gephi and
were used for networking and clustering the research articles.
To identify the sub-fields/themes of a research domain, the nodes of a network are
divided into clusters or modules using clustering techniques (Fahimnia et al. , 2015). The
degree of association is strong among members of the same cluster and weak between
members of different clusters. For dividing the network into clusters, the default Louvain
clustering algorithm in the Gephi software is used, which will maximize the modularity
index by iterating each node to all clusters (Rajagopal et al. , 2017). Modularity is an
important metric that provides information about the overall clustering of the networks.
The modularity index is a scalar value between −1 and +1 that measures the density of
links inside the clusters vs the links between the clusters (Fahimnia et al., 2015).
23
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026