--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C38
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 20
Word Range: 10076 - 10340
Word Count: 265
--------------------

[Page 20]
characteristics like spatial relationship between farmers and consumers ( Jarosz, 2008),
SFSC, for example, farmers ’ markets (Wills, 2017; Giampietri, 2016a; Miralles et al. , 2017;
Aggestam, 2017), community-supported agriculture (CSA) (Barta,2017; Pascucci et al., 2011;
Syrovátková et al., 2015) and box scheme (Miralles, 2017; Freidberg, 2011), the existence of
“alternative” food purchasing models and retail venues, usually based on human relationships
and proximity between consumers, producers and/or retailers; small farm size and scale or
environmentally sustainable farming methods, and a commitment to the social, economic and
environmental dimensions of sustainable food production, distribution and consumption.
SFSCs shift food production out of“industrial modes” with long and complex structures to a
shorter system in which consumers are closer tothe origin of their food. SFSCs enable SMEs to
capture a higher proportion of value added, as well as making direct connections with final
consumers. Farmers’ markets, CSA and box schemes are some forms of SFSC through which
local food products are made available to consumers through a direct exchange. Farmers ’
markets deliver local food products, as well as knowledge about the food system and agricultural
awareness to the consumers (Garneret al., 2018). However, it is difficult for the farmers in the
SME sector to deliver a steady, diverse and abundant quantity of local food products in such a
way that it would eclipse the need for a globalized food system (Pearsonet al.,2 0 1 1 ) .C S A ,i na
sense, attempts to re-structure the food production and consumption by providing more
importance to members of a community than conventional economic roles such as food
producers and their consumers (Hinrichs, 2000). Box schemes represent the more common form
of direct selling in the UK. It involves the exchange of pre-packed food products between
suppliers and consumers (Zorbas et al., 2018). Fruit and vegetable box schemes are attaining
innovative, profitable niche markets since the demand for local food from the SME sector is
dramatically increasing. Box schemes may denote one of the food system solutions in which food
is re-localized from the market to farm and relations are personalized through transparency and
broad contextual information directly from the food SMEs (Torjusenet al., 2008).
It is observed that “CSA” have received much attention, whereas the research on farmer’s
market and “box scheme ” is very limited. Conceptual or qualitative method is the most
prominent solution methodology, followed by empirical method, whereas quantitative
methods need further attention. From Table X, it is clear that most of the AFN research is
focussed on the fruits and vegetable sector, followed by the meat and poultry sector.
3.3.2 Cluster 2: relationship, safety and standards in food supply chain . The relationship
management includes the process of developing profound and long-standing relationships
with consumers and suppliers through constructing links between the supply chain
members (Fredriksson and Liljestrand, 2015). Although a number of research works
are conducted on supply chain relationship in the food sector, the majority of them are
focussing on the farmer – retailer or farmer – processor relationships. The relationship
issues are further classified as contract-based relationship, a relationship grounded on trust
and communication.
It is evident that contractual relationship among the supply chain members will decrease the
transaction costs and market imperfections (Neilson, 2007), and intensify access to marketing
(Blandon, 2010). Trust is considered as the soul of supply chain management (Fu et al., 2017a),
and it is the inter-personal belief acquired from the experience by enabling a safe and secure food
supply (Fischer, 2013). According to Fu et al. (2017a), a trust-based relationship among the
supply chain members can stimulate the information sharing and corporation. A successful SC
relationship is defined as a collaborative relati onship, characterized by a high level of trust
and communication ( Jonsson and Gustavsson, 2008). The quality of a food sector depends not
only on its own quality but also on the quality of its suppliers, and hence the information
sharing between the firms and their suppliers have an important role in the FSC (Huoet al., 2018).
Apart from this, the unclear data about the quality of the product will lead to a crisis, and
38
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026