--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C44
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 22
Word Range: 11591 - 11846
Word Count: 256
--------------------

[Page 22]
3.3.4 Cluster 4: traceability and product quality in the food supply chain . Olsen and Borit
(2013) defined traceability as the ability to access information related to things that are to be
considered throughout their whole life cycle using recorded identification. The term
“Traceability” includes both “tracing” and “tracking” (Dandage et al. , 2017). Tracing is a
reverse process in which origin is identified in the supply chain, and tracking is a forward
process where the end users are identified by the location in the supply chain.
The articles in this cluster are divided into three main sub-themes such as quality and
safety, sustainability and cost-related issue. Traceability is recognized as a mechanism for
quality and safety (Manzini et al., 2013), improving sustainability (Giagnocavo et al., 2017;
Mattevi and Jones, 2016a) and reducing the overall cost (Dandage et al. , 2017) of the food
product since it reduces the recall ’s probability. Dabbene et al. (2014) identified many issues
related to traceability of bulk products, fraud prevention, quality and identity preservation
concerns and food crisis management. For the past few years, many developed and
developing countries, for instance, Austria, Germany, the UK, etc., have made it mandatory
to implement food traceability systems (Riviere and Buckley, 2012). However, it is
surprising that India, the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables in the world
(Saxena and Gandhi, 2014), does not have any required traceability system (Schroeder and
Tonsor, 2012).
In recent years, an increasing effort in the implementation of traceability systems can be
seen, mainly as a result of a growing concern with food quality and safety issues (Saltini
et al. , 2013). An optimized and sustainable supply chain necessarily requires taking into
account the traceability (Germani et al. , 2015). To overcome the food quality and safety
issues, it is necessary to develop a trusted food traceability system, which can track and
monitor the complete lifespan of food production (Lin et al. , 2018). Of late, McDonald
restaurants presented the food traceability system to monitor the item sources from various
providers of the nation, keeping in mind the end goal to give food security and quality
(Dandage et al. , 2017). For this, a mobile application called TrackMyMacca ’s was created.
Through this application, the global positioning system (GPS) provides the location of the
restaurant, the tracking image on the McDonald ’s packaging is recognized by the software,
and combining these data along with date and time, the application accesses McDonald ’s
supply database to get the story of the products. Proper traceability in the food industry is
required due to the precarious nature of the existing supply chain and to reduce the
numerous cases of food safety incidents and fraudulence (Dandage et al., 2017). Improving
sustainability in the SME food sector usually leads to a higher cost. However, by creating
transparency through the traceability, consumers have to be convinced that often higher
prices are involved to improve sustainability (Khan et al., 2018). A smart traceability system
in the SME food sector can be built by the application of modern technologies such as cloud
computing, GPS, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, artificial intelligence (AI), etc., into
traditional agriculture. Lin et al. (2018) conducted a study on the influence of Blockchain and
IoT technologies on the agri-food sector and found that these technologies help to build a
self-organized, open, trusted and ecological smart agriculture system, which includes all
parties in the system, even if they may not trust each other.
From the analysis, it is observed that studies on the impact of traceability on
sustainability and cost of the product need further attention. Developing smart traceability
system in the SME food sector is a ripe research area. From Table X, it is observed that
empirical and quantitative models have received much attention. Our results indicate that
meat and poultry and fruits and vegetables sectors are the most addressed food sector in
this cluster.
3.3.5 Cluster 5: asymmetric price transmission system in the supply chain . This cluster
focussed on the degree to which price changes are transferred along the FSC. Price transmission,
40
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026