--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C48
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 24
Word Range: 12640 - 12889
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 24]
SME sector. A smart traceability system in the SME food sector can be built by the
application of modern technologies such as IoT, cloud computing, GPS, Big Data, block
chains, AI, etc., as the findings of Mattevi and Jones (2016b) confirmed that SMEs of the UK
do not consider technology as a driver to implement traceability, albeit product safety,
quality and regulations are observed as the main drivers. Several countries have set up the
specific regulations or policies for food traceability of a broad range of food and animal
products of both domestic and imported origin. Although traceability of livestock and meat
products has improved through the harmonization of animal identification systems in many
countries, systems allowing for the same level of traceability for other food commodities are
still far from being fully implemented (Charlebois, 2015).
The FSC contributes 20 – 30 per cent of the GHG emissions in terms of the global
environmental impact. This is mainly as a result of a large amount of resources required for
the food production and formation of the food waste in the whole life cycle (Noya et al., 2018).
However, the consumers ’ awareness of high-quality food products produced in an
environmentally friendly way has increased considerably in the last decade (Notarnicola
et al. , 2012). In order to comply with consumers ’ expectations and also improve the
competitiveness, companies and retailers have developed new strategic approaches for
sustainable food production and consumption across the whole supply chain. LCA
methodology has been extensively used as a tool to assess the environmental profile of the
food products, as shown in Figure 9. The dairy sector has received increasing attention in
the environmental impact analysis (see Table X). The strong environmental impact of milk
production has driven researchers to investigate mitigation measures, and several countries
have tried to respond with initiatives of varying levels of complexities at different stages of
the supply chain (Torquati et al., 2015). The concept of local food and food miles is gaining
traction in recent years as a way of eating fresh and high-quality foods and reducing the
environmental impact. When carbon footprints are exclusively observed, other important
issues like water usage are neglected. Sustainable practices for water footprint mitigation in
FSC need further attention.
4. Conclusion
This paper presents an SLR and a comprehensive analysis of 1,091 articles in supply chain
issues in SME food sector from 2002 to 2018. To understand the dynamic evolution, we
adopted a comparative approach to the analysis of the data, which we divided into two
roughly equal parts. We used BC combined with co-word analysis to identify the historical
relations of the research themes that emerged during the periods 2002 – 2014 and 2002– 2018.
The broader thematic context is obtained for the period 2002 – 2014, whereas the inclusion of
recent articles (i.e. 2015– 2018) resulted in identifying the emerging research directions out of
these broader issues. From the results of bibliographic network and co-word analysis on the
data, we detected five major themes as production and distribution in AFN, relationship,
safety and standards in FSC, GHG emission impact of farm food system, traceability and
product quality in FSC and asymmetric price transmission in the FSC. It is identified that
GHG emission and traceability themes have received increasing attention in recent years. It
is observed that “SME” is associated with all the four clusters except the asymmetric price
transmission, indicating the association of this keyword with the corresponding clusters.
The research articles are further analysed with reference to the research focus, modelling
approaches used and food sectors addressed. The major food sector addressed in the SME
FSC is the dairy sector, followed by fruits and vegetables, meat and poultry, seafood sector
and grain and oil seeds, respectively. The most commonly used modelling techniques are
empirical methodology/case study, followed by conceptual or qualitative method, and
review; however, quantitative method needs further attention.
42
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026