--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 22 to Page 23
Word Range: 10307 - 11739
Word Count: 1,433
--------------------

[Page 22]
3.3.4 Cluster 4: traceability and product quality in the food supply chain . Olsen and Borit
(2013) defined traceability as the ability to access information related to things that are to be
considered throughout their whole life cycle using recorded identification. The term
“Traceability” includes both “tracing” and “tracking” (Dandage et al. , 2017). Tracing is a
reverse process in which origin is identified in the supply chain, and tracking is a forward
process where the end users are identified by the location in the supply chain.
The articles in this cluster are divided into three main sub-themes such as quality and
safety, sustainability and cost-related issue. Traceability is recognized as a mechanism for
quality and safety (Manzini et al., 2013), improving sustainability (Giagnocavo et al., 2017;
Mattevi and Jones, 2016a) and reducing the overall cost (Dandage et al. , 2017) of the food
product since it reduces the recall ’s probability. Dabbene et al. (2014) identified many issues
related to traceability of bulk products, fraud prevention, quality and identity preservation
concerns and food crisis management. For the past few years, many developed and
developing countries, for instance, Austria, Germany, the UK, etc., have made it mandatory
to implement food traceability systems (Riviere and Buckley, 2012). However, it is
surprising that India, the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables in the world
(Saxena and Gandhi, 2014), does not have any required traceability system (Schroeder and
Tonsor, 2012).
In recent years, an increasing effort in the implementation of traceability systems can be
seen, mainly as a result of a growing concern with food quality and safety issues (Saltini
et al. , 2013). An optimized and sustainable supply chain necessarily requires taking into
account the traceability (Germani et al. , 2015). To overcome the food quality and safety
issues, it is necessary to develop a trusted food traceability system, which can track and
monitor the complete lifespan of food production (Lin et al. , 2018). Of late, McDonald
restaurants presented the food traceability system to monitor the item sources from various
providers of the nation, keeping in mind the end goal to give food security and quality
(Dandage et al. , 2017). For this, a mobile application called TrackMyMacca ’s was created.
Through this application, the global positioning system (GPS) provides the location of the
restaurant, the tracking image on the McDonald ’s packaging is recognized by the software,
and combining these data along with date and time, the application accesses McDonald ’s
supply database to get the story of the products. Proper traceability in the food industry is
required due to the precarious nature of the existing supply chain and to reduce the
numerous cases of food safety incidents and fraudulence (Dandage et al., 2017). Improving
sustainability in the SME food sector usually leads to a higher cost. However, by creating
transparency through the traceability, consumers have to be convinced that often higher
prices are involved to improve sustainability (Khan et al., 2018). A smart traceability system
in the SME food sector can be built by the application of modern technologies such as cloud
computing, GPS, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, artificial intelligence (AI), etc., into
traditional agriculture. Lin et al. (2018) conducted a study on the influence of Blockchain and
IoT technologies on the agri-food sector and found that these technologies help to build a
self-organized, open, trusted and ecological smart agriculture system, which includes all
parties in the system, even if they may not trust each other.
From the analysis, it is observed that studies on the impact of traceability on
sustainability and cost of the product need further attention. Developing smart traceability
system in the SME food sector is a ripe research area. From Table X, it is observed that
empirical and quantitative models have received much attention. Our results indicate that
meat and poultry and fruits and vegetables sectors are the most addressed food sector in
this cluster.
3.3.5 Cluster 5: asymmetric price transmission system in the supply chain . This cluster
focussed on the degree to which price changes are transferred along the FSC. Price transmission,
40
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026

[Page 23]
in short, is the process in which upstream prices affect downstream prices. The welfare of
farmers and food consumers is affected by horizontal and vertical price transmission in the FSC
(Pokrivcak et al., 2014). Price transmission from producer prices to consumer prices refers to
vertical price transmission, whereas horizontal price transmission means the interconnection
among different markets at the same positionin a supply chain. The main causes of asymmetric
price transmission, as narrated in the literature, are existence of adjustment and menu costs that
occur due to the re-pricing and the acquisition of an advanced pricing strategy (Meyer and
Cramon-Taubadel, 2004), market power (Daiet al., 2017; Aysoy et al.,2 0 1 5 ;B a k u c set al., 2014)
a n dm i s c e l l a n e o u sc a u s e ss u c ha sa s y m m e t r i ci n formation, inventory management and political
intervention (Meyer and Cramon-Taubadel, 2004), etc. Adjustment cost occurs when there is a
change in a new pricing strategy or re-pricing,and APT arise if these costs are asymmetric with
respect to increases or decreases in prices (Simioniet al., 2013). APT is mainly related to market
distortion like market power of retailers or processors (Pokrivcaket al.,2 0 1 4 ) .G e n e r a l l y ,f o o d
industries are oligopolistic in nature (Bakucset al., 2014), and the price transmission is influenced
more by the market power in downstream sectors by decreasing the purchasing prices in the
upstream sectors.
Domestic producer prices are associated with the law of one price to world prices,
whereas the consumer prices depend on both producer prices as well as the efficiency of
price transmission (Liu et al., 2018). In agricultural and food markets, a hike in the producer
prices is transferred more rapidly to consumer prices than a producer price decline, which is
passed through the FSC to consumer prices more slowly and incompletely. Empirical
studies illustrate that APT is the rule rather than the exception (Rezitis and Pachis, 2018).
Our results found that empirical modelling is widely used in this cluster.
3.4 Research implications
The food industry represents one of the largest manufacturing sectors in the global
economy. FSC has been coined to depict the activities or operations from production,
distribution, and consumption so as to keep the safety and quality of various food products
under efficient and effective modes (Blandon et al. , 2009b). A major portion of the food
processing and distribution industries participating in the FSC comprises of SMEs.
Implementing SCM practices to improve the operations in food SMEs is not as easy as in
bigger counterparts, as there may be lots of complexities and difficulties in analysing the
operational objectives (Nabhani and Shokri, 2009). Indeed, both academics and practitioners
pay increasing attention towards the supply chain issues in food SMEs. Despite this
growing attention, the extant literature has yet to provide any evidence of a systematic
review of supply chain issues in SME food sector. To address this research gap, we present
an SLR of supply chain issues in SME food sector on the basis of BC and co-word analysis.
The findings of this research exhibit the following implications for research, practice, and
society. The policy makers could use the findings for developing strategies for the
betterment of SMEs in the FSC, which will provide huge employment opportunities and
ensure regional balance by taking industrialization to rural and backward areas.
Our review contributes to the body of FSC literature by reporting the major supply chain
issues/themes, the current research trends and the different modelling approaches used in
the SME food industry. We have identified five major themes, of which two themes, namely,
GHG emission impact of the farm food system and traceability and product quality in the
FSC, have received increasing attention in recent years. Our findings support the recent
study (Mattevi and Jones, 2016a) that suggests managers should see “being traceable” as a
strategic objective as it is “being green”, and it further reports that traceability could follow
the sustainability development path, due to consumer pressure on traceability. Food
traceability is one of the main factors in the evaluation of quality assurance systems in the
41
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026