--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 20 to Page 21
Word Range: 8946 - 10306
Word Count: 1,361
--------------------

[Page 20]
characteristics like spatial relationship between farmers and consumers ( Jarosz, 2008),
SFSC, for example, farmers ’ markets (Wills, 2017; Giampietri, 2016a; Miralles et al. , 2017;
Aggestam, 2017), community-supported agriculture (CSA) (Barta,2017; Pascucci et al., 2011;
Syrovátková et al., 2015) and box scheme (Miralles, 2017; Freidberg, 2011), the existence of
“alternative” food purchasing models and retail venues, usually based on human relationships
and proximity between consumers, producers and/or retailers; small farm size and scale or
environmentally sustainable farming methods, and a commitment to the social, economic and
environmental dimensions of sustainable food production, distribution and consumption.
SFSCs shift food production out of“industrial modes” with long and complex structures to a
shorter system in which consumers are closer tothe origin of their food. SFSCs enable SMEs to
capture a higher proportion of value added, as well as making direct connections with final
consumers. Farmers’ markets, CSA and box schemes are some forms of SFSC through which
local food products are made available to consumers through a direct exchange. Farmers ’
markets deliver local food products, as well as knowledge about the food system and agricultural
awareness to the consumers (Garneret al., 2018). However, it is difficult for the farmers in the
SME sector to deliver a steady, diverse and abundant quantity of local food products in such a
way that it would eclipse the need for a globalized food system (Pearsonet al.,2 0 1 1 ) .C S A ,i na
sense, attempts to re-structure the food production and consumption by providing more
importance to members of a community than conventional economic roles such as food
producers and their consumers (Hinrichs, 2000). Box schemes represent the more common form
of direct selling in the UK. It involves the exchange of pre-packed food products between
suppliers and consumers (Zorbas et al., 2018). Fruit and vegetable box schemes are attaining
innovative, profitable niche markets since the demand for local food from the SME sector is
dramatically increasing. Box schemes may denote one of the food system solutions in which food
is re-localized from the market to farm and relations are personalized through transparency and
broad contextual information directly from the food SMEs (Torjusenet al., 2008).
It is observed that “CSA” have received much attention, whereas the research on farmer’s
market and “box scheme ” is very limited. Conceptual or qualitative method is the most
prominent solution methodology, followed by empirical method, whereas quantitative
methods need further attention. From Table X, it is clear that most of the AFN research is
focussed on the fruits and vegetable sector, followed by the meat and poultry sector.
3.3.2 Cluster 2: relationship, safety and standards in food supply chain . The relationship
management includes the process of developing profound and long-standing relationships
with consumers and suppliers through constructing links between the supply chain
members (Fredriksson and Liljestrand, 2015). Although a number of research works
are conducted on supply chain relationship in the food sector, the majority of them are
focussing on the farmer – retailer or farmer – processor relationships. The relationship
issues are further classified as contract-based relationship, a relationship grounded on trust
and communication.
It is evident that contractual relationship among the supply chain members will decrease the
transaction costs and market imperfections (Neilson, 2007), and intensify access to marketing
(Blandon, 2010). Trust is considered as the soul of supply chain management (Fu et al., 2017a),
and it is the inter-personal belief acquired from the experience by enabling a safe and secure food
supply (Fischer, 2013). According to Fu et al. (2017a), a trust-based relationship among the
supply chain members can stimulate the information sharing and corporation. A successful SC
relationship is defined as a collaborative relati onship, characterized by a high level of trust
and communication ( Jonsson and Gustavsson, 2008). The quality of a food sector depends not
only on its own quality but also on the quality of its suppliers, and hence the information
sharing between the firms and their suppliers have an important role in the FSC (Huoet al., 2018).
Apart from this, the unclear data about the quality of the product will lead to a crisis, and
38
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026

[Page 21]
high-information quality can st imulate SC performance through improving the relationship
( Jonsson and Gustavsson, 2008).
The safety issues are further divided into food safety standards and food safety
management system (FSMS). For the growth of the domestic food retail sector and high-
value exports, food safety standard is an essential factor (Unnevehr, 2015; Shukla et al. ,
2018). Jacxsens et al. (2015) classified food safety and quality standards as European Union
legislation, Codex Alimentarius standards, private standards and national legislation. To
report food safety, every organization in the global food SC desires to implement a FSMS,
and each FSMS is organizational specific since it is a result of the implementation of various
legal requirements and quality assurance into a company ’s unique environment and
production (Kirezieva et al., 2015).
Luo et al. (2018) identified driving forces and barriers to the supply chain relationship in
the SME food sector. The driving forces include food safety scandals, changing consumer
demand and SC risks. Also, barriers consist of coordination difficulties due to the number of
connecting entities, incomplete information sharing, malfunctions originating from diverse
strategic planning practices, lack of trust among stakeholders, different entrepreneurial
mentalities and failure to understand opportunities in the SME food sectors. Our result
reveals that a case study or empirical methodology is the most commonly used solution
methodology, followed by qualitative methods, whereas quantitative models need further
attention. Dairy and fruits and vegetables sectors have received much attention, whereas
other food sectors are not much addressed in this cluster.
3.3.3 Cluster 3: GHG emission impact of the farm food system . The agricultural
production has developed significantly over the recent decades, resulting in the increased use
of fertilisers and mechanization that lead to the environmental consequences (Tasca et al. ,
2017). To assess the environmental impacts of food systems, various metrics have been
established that include the quantification of GHG emissions and water usage of food items,
assessment of water footprint and food production systems through LCA (Green et al., 2018).
Here, we classified the food emission according to GHG emission and water footprints. GHGs
can be explained with different types of emissions including carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane
(CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) (Vida et al., 2017; Christie et al., 2011). The food products in the
supply chain produce GHG emission from the farm-to-fork through manufacturing,
distribution and even retailing (Dorward, 2012). Water pollution and consumption at a global
scale are recognized as the key resource use issues. Agricultural production is the foremost
water user, and the major water footprint approaches applied to agricultural commodities are
the water footprint network method and LCA method (Zonderland-Thomassen et al., 2012).
The water footprint is characterized by green, blue and grey water along the whole life cycle of
a product (Payen et al., 2018). The green water footprint is the volume of water evaporated
from the root zone of the soil, and it is particularly relevant for forestry, horticultural and
agricultural products. The blue water footprint is the volume of freshwater that evaporated
from surface or groundwater resources to produce goods and services. Domestic water use,
irrigated agriculture and industry can each have a blue water footprint. Grey water footprint is
the amount of freshwater required to dilute a load of pollutants to meet the specific water
quality standards.
Our result indicates that 90 per cent of the research is on GHG emission studies and the
water footprint issues need further attention. The conceptual methodologies have been
widely used, whereas the empirical models and quantitative techniques investigating
emission from the food products and its impact are limited and need further attention.
Besides, our result indicates that the dairy sector is the most addressed food sector in this
research theme, whereas research on fruits and vegetables, meat and poultry and seafood
sector is limited.
39
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026