--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-029-C02
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-029
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 275 - 600
Word Count: 326
--------------------

is Tamilnadu's very own city of Turmeric and textiles. The place is a captivating mix of bustling markets, the constant whirr of looms, the beautiful water bodies, temples and dams.” The title wasn't given to this city overnight. It's been given to it for its decades of cultivation, trade and having one of the largest spice markets in the country. Turmeric is highly cultivated in Erode district and the Erode turmeric market is officially the second-largest in India after Nizamabad located in Telangana. The Erode District website mentions: “Erode district is also known for Turmeric for its extensive cultivation and Market. Erode Turmeric Market is second best in India next to Nizamabad.” Erode district has a total horticultural area of 55,030 ha which includes turmeric as one of the most prominent crops cultivated across the region. The other known attribute of the turmeric grown in Erode is that it is rich in curcumin which is the compound that makes it yellow and also has many health benefits. So it's no surprise that Erode's turmeric is in demand in India, the US, UK and other Southeast Asian countries. The TNAU Agritech Portal states that the curcumin content found in Erode’s turmeric is around 3.9%. And lastly, Erode’s turmeric has been granted Geographical Indication (GI) Tag status by the Government of India which is a seal of approval that confirms that it is turmeric from a particular region of India which is another seal of approval for export. Erode district came into existence after the bifurcation of Coimbatore district by a Government Order issued on 31st August 1979 and the history of the district dates back to Sangam Age in Kongu Nadu. The Erode District website mentions: “Erode District came into being as a result of the bifurcation of Coimbatore District, through the G.O.Ms.No.1917, Revenue dated 31.08.1979. Bhavani, Erode and Sathyamangalam taluks were included in Coimbatore district which had a composite character, at the beginning of the century.”