--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 4
Word Range: 1 - 1485
Word Count: 1,485
--------------------

[Page 1]
Original Scientific Article Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 
Vol2 1 issue 1, (2022) 36-52 https://doi.org/10.31181/jdaic10011062022v 
Sustainable Supply chain Systems of Food and 
Beverages SMEs in developing countries: 
Theoretical perspective 
Vidya Verma1, Priya Bisht1, Sudhanshu Joshi2,3 
1 Arts, Humanities & Social Sciences, Motherwood University, Roorkee, India 
2 Operations and Supply Chain Management Area, Doon University, India 
3 School of Computer Science, FEIT, University of Technology Sydney, Australia 
 
E-mail: sudhanshujoshi@doonuniversity.ac.in 
 
Received: 10 February 2022 
Accepted for publication: 6 June 2022 
Published: 11 June 2022 
Abstract: 
Considering the growing consumption patters of food and beverages across the developing countries, the role of 
sustainable supply chain systems and their management becomes important. The papers deals in evaluating the 
development of the subject from the viewpoint of underpinning theories. The research also provides useful 
insights into the fields that have been explored by existing literature. 
Keywords: SMEs, Food and Beverages; SMEs; Developing Countries. 
1. Introduction 
In developing countries with ever-increasing concerns about environmental stability, the problems facing F&B 
category SMEs in the production  zone are increasing (Yacob et al., 2018).  Artin (2022) stated environmental 
awareness continues to affect business strategies in the 21st century. The lack of organizational skills in SME firm 
appears to be part of the GSCM framework. The research also includes the most significant elements for the basic 
sustainable areas of supply chain management and SMEs during the uncertainty. (Joshi and Sharma, 2022).  In 
India, businesses are under immense pressure to integrate Sustainable Supply Chain Practices (SSCPs) in the 
traditional Supply Chains. The study aims to examine the challenges to the adoption of Sustainable Supply Chain 
Practices (SSCPs) in SMEs in India.  Within the context of SMEs, the idea of sustainability in decision -making 
strategies has become increasingly relevant. The competitiveness and volatility  of the environment often has 
critical role in identifying best practices to attain sustainability while integrating economic, environmental and 
social priorities in the Supply Chain process Yahia Marzouk, and Jin (2022). With rising regulatory and market 
pressure to adopt green practices, small and medium-sized companies face immense challenges in order to both 
boost their supply chains' organizational and green efficiency. The results of this study show that while several 
Small and Medium -sized establishments recognize the value of green practices, they have incomplete data to 
implement these practices in order to enhance their operational efficiency. Incorporation and configuration of

[Page 2]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 37  
 
green operations with initiatives for organizational improvement are de fined as serious issues for establishing a 
successful green supply chain ( Kashyap, and Shukla, 2022).  Majority of SMEs are privately held businesses and 
seldom actively seek study and publishing of effective practices, it is not easy to find success storie s in the 
implementation of sustainability. 
1.1 Sustainability research in SME domain 
Most academic research work in context to sustainable practices and performances is more focused on larger 
firms while small and medium firm got relatively little attentions (Das et al., 2020; Joshi, 2018). Due to variation in 
scale and scope of operations, assessment of sustainable practices and its performance, need to be examined 
separately in the case of SMEs vis-à-vis larger firms (Joshi and Joshi, 2016). Several researchers have attempted to 
explain crucial success measures in controlling the supply chain for sustainability, but they do not take all aspects 
into account. Research on Sustainability in SMEs Supply Chain Management is still at an initial level and substantial 
research work has not been accompanied by statistical data. All aspects of experience in the field are not taken 
into consideration by the ideas that are being used in SSCM. The success of the business is more related to financial 
and environmental ap proaches and there is a difference in the human and social dimensions of sustainability 
(Shanker et al., 2021; Sharma et al., 2022).Authors reveal in their study most of the research uses PLS to calculate 
sustainability in supply chain management, Future s tudy can be done through different SEM tools (Luthra et al, 
2022; Mardani et al., 2020). In the end we can highlights the following broad breaches in SSCM exercises at SMEs: 
1. The study of Critical achievement issues in a context of particular region to attain sustainability in supply 
chain management of SMEs. 
2. Impact of CSF or sustainable supply chain practices on all three domains: the economic, Environmental 
and social performance of SMEs. 
3. Development of model focused on supplier management practices and op erational management 
practices and their performance outcomes at SMEs in all three areas economic, social and 
environmental. 
To check the operational feasibility of sustainable supply chain model developed. 
2. Literature review 
2.1 Theoretical framework 
In response to the aforementioned questions, authors applied theories of the supply chain (Table 1): institutional 
theory, a resource -based perspective (RBV). Environmentally friendly SCM literature has more widely utilized 
these ideas  (Hafeez, & Andersen, 2014; ; Kazlauskaitė et al., 2015; ; Karim et al., 2022; Kamble et al.,2019).  
 
Table 1. Key Theories in Supply Chain Management 
Theory Description Reference 
RBV (Resource based View 
Theory) 
 
“The Sustainable value proposition of an organisation 
originates from its important, unusual, inimitable, 
non-substitute resources and the specific way in 
which core capabilities are used” 
(Hafeez, & Andersen, 
2014; Kazlauskaitė et al., 
2015; Karim et al., 2022; 
Kamble et al.,2019).

[Page 3]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 38  
 
Theory Description Reference 
Natural Resource Base 
View 
“A main competitive advantage is to tackle the social 
and environmental problem within company 
capabilities. Sustainable development imperatives 
build possibilities for distinction and enhanced market 
strength” 
Makhloufi et al., 2022; 
Fraj et al., 2013; Gupta et 
al., 2020 
Stakeholder Theory 
“Companies' operations influence both internal and 
external participants. It is possible to consider as 
social responsibility to fulfil the aspirations of its 
different stakeholders. By considering the large 
network of players in their strategy, companies may 
secure survivality  and maintain their licence to 
operate” 
Gupta, H. & Nanda, T. ( 
2015; Joshi and Joshi, 
2020). 
Institutional Theory 
“Organizations are affected by external social forces 
(coercive, mimetic and normative) to implement 
social and environmental responsibility and alter their 
activities to achieve credibility. Companies maintain 
the consistency of their business activities with the 
aspirations of society by adapting to legislation and 
imitating their rivals” 
(Joshi et al., 2020; Khoja 
et al., 2022; Klewitz et al., 
2014;Sharma et al., 2019; 
Shibin et al., 2020) 
 
Transaction Cost Theory 
Costs and efforts are shared by two entities 
participating in an interaction or operation. 
Reasonable modes of governance and protections (i.e. 
in contractual arrangements) must be established for 
the maintenance of the exchange entities. 
 
 
Brouthers, and  Nakos, 
2004;Kalinic and 
Brouthers, 2022; Chou et 
al., 2014; Das et al., 2020 
 
Figure 1 presents the research framework.  
 
Driving Forces/pressure 
towards to adopt 
sustainability  
Implementation of SSCM 
practices
Performance outcome
Economic Performance
Environment Performance
Social Performance
Strategic practices
Supplier management Practices
 Supplier Evaluation practices
 Supplier Development Practices
Operational Management Practices
1. Economic 
2. Environment
3. Social
 Organisation 
 Environment 
 Management 
 
Figure 1: Research framework 
 
2.2 Research Method and Design

[Page 4]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 39  
 
Research is a value -oriented approach that includes collecting, recording, summarizing, classifying and 
evaluating, along with clear logics and reasons, relevant facts about any problem. Research is scientific and 
systematic search to solve the research problem for relevant knowledge on a specified subject. It is an approach 
to developing new ideas and values within a structu red body of knowledge and exploration. There are two 
qualitative and quantitative methodologies for the study of scientific research. Figure 1 depicts the research 
framework used for the paper. As per Read (1984), the analysis method's preference relies upon the goals of the 
research and the application of the results. Alongside this methodology, a systematic review of current literature 
on the phenomenon of research, working from the general to the specific, conceived the relationship's causal 
model. The a nalysis model was then validated empirically using the multivariate technique subset Structural 
Equation Modeling (Hair et al., 2010). 
2.3 Research Strategy 
The research aims to evaluate the sustainable administration practices of the supply chain and its success 
among SMEs. In this research, factor analysis was used to investigate the stated goals. Figure 2 provides a detailed 
overview of the steps involved in this analytical method. The empirical strategy involves the survey, the creation 
of the questionn aire and the collection of data, and the breakdown of data obtained using expressive 
measurements and dynamic study. 
SSCM- Literature review
 Existing theory related to SSCM and the origin of SSCM
 Review of Literature
Critical success factor identification
 Picking up existing items through Secondary data (literature 
review).
 Development of Survey Questionnaire
 Development of SSCM model.
 Systematic Literature review and Theoretical framework 
building 
 Future research recommendations
 
Figure 2. Research methodology overview 
 
3. Materials and methods 
3.1 Data Collection