--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 9 to Page 11
Word Range: 3083 - 4574
Word Count: 1,492
--------------------

[Page 9]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 44  
 
particularly with regard to small and medium -sized establishments in emerging nations Kumar et al., (2019).The 
purpose of this study is just to define the key performance indicators and their effect on the efficiency of small 
and medium-sized companies for supply chain management practices and also analyse the viability of the model 
established in this report. To develop awareness of the condition of the supply chain in the manufacture of SMEs 
and for direct potential analysis. Following research can be carried for future research 
RQ1: What are the effective CSFs needed to attain sustainability? 
RQ2: What are the impacts of CSFs on performance of SMEs? 
RQ3: What are current sustainability environmental issues? 
RQ4: What are the most effective indicators for measuring sustainable performance of Supply chain management? 
No previous reading considered all three features (environmental financial, and communal) of sustainable 
supply chain management in an extensive manner. 
 
5. Managerial implication and conclusions 
This study adds to emerging research on sustainable developm ent, operations management and SMEs. The 
purpose of this research is to have a broad view of how environmental sustainability contributes to previous 
Studies have explored sustainability in relation to financial and environmental characteristics by offering all three 
aspects i.e., economic, social and environment this research contributes to the sustainability literature in supply 
chain management.  The results have many implications for entrepreneurs of SMEs who strive to achieve 
operational excellence, particularly in the manufacturing sector. Operational excellence can be accomplished by 
SMEs through the successful implementation of sustainable practices in their supply chain management. Research 
findings indicate that successful use of model developed in  the study will facilitate sustainable results in 
organisations' operations and supply chain functions.In this influential thesis on the relationship of critical success 
issues driving maintainable activities in Supply chain management of Indian SMEs, the findings of this study are 
explored in detail, offering insight for academics and industry professionals alike. Plausible ties that are not 
accounted for in the model, but substantiated by literature, are explored and promoted. Finally, these findings 
can be used by SME practitioners and relevant policymakers to develop a set of initial guidelines and 
recommendations to assist them in the effective execution of SSCM practices. The most important consequences 
for industrial and political professionals, who a lso provide general knowledge to decision -makers in countries 
other than India, are illustrated here: As a significance of accepting sustainable exercises, lower production costs 
would increase over time. A decline in manufacturing costs does not inherently lead to a greater commitment to 
sustainability and, as such, it is important to take a constructive approach to achieve lasting results.

[Page 10]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 45  
 
‒ Investing in technology development and enhanced logistic support have important roles to play in 
reducing production costs, based on the derived model. Managers and owners should pursue new 
possibilities, such as vehicle communication and innovations relevant to firm, to reinforce and improve 
logistics operations. 
‒ Top management operating SMEs should be aware that devel oping partnerships with the sustainable 
supply chain will result in new opportunities for business. The sustainable supply chain relationships, 
however, arise as a result of the implementation of the enablers defined in this model of hierarchy. 
‒ Investment in upgrading waste management of industry facilities to be more consistent with the ideals 
of a circular economy will have a huge impact on the sustainability of industry. 
‒ In creating awareness regarding sustainability, management and staff support for sus tainable best 
practices is important. Sustainability and environmental awareness raising activities are just as 
successful and sensitive to being discussed as help for leadership and can contribute to new business 
opportunities with green suppliers. 
‒ For manufacturing SMEs, incentives and tax reductions at the government to promote international 
sustainable supply chain partnerships and enhanced supply chain networks are especially relevant. 
‒ Promotion of green manufacturing, green purchasing and green packag ing is also a crucial step for 
sustainability of firms. As there is a constant pressure of customer towards adopting green practices in 
manufacturing sector in an organisation. 
‒ Although Supplier’s trust, Motivation and Training to adopt sustainability is a  key point to be consider 
for green practices. 
‒ All industries should also pay attention to social area. 
Acknowledgements   
The authors acknowledge the reviewers and editor of the JDAIC for their critical evaluation of the manuscript and 
to help in improving its quality through rigorous process of review. 
 
References 
 
Aggarwal, A. K., & Joshi, S. (2014). Customer perspective in closed loop -sustainable tourism supply chain 
management: issues and concerns. International Journal in Management & Social Science, 2(10), 85–90. 
Aggarwal, A. K., & Joshi, S. (2014). Tourism Destination Competitiveness from Stakeholders’ Perspectives: 
Influences and Evidence from Uttarakhand. International Journal in Management \& Social Science, 2(9), 79–
89. 
Aldaas, R., Mohamed, R., A li, M. H., & Ismail, N. A. (2022). Green supply chain management and SMEs 
environmental performance: green HRM practices as antecedent from service sector of emerging 
economy. International Journal of Emergency Services. 
Ali Abbasi, G., Abdul Rahim, N. F., Wu, H., Iranmanesh, M., & Keong, B. N. C. (2022). Determinants of SME’s Social 
Media Marketing Adoption: Competitive Industry as a Moderator. SAGE Open, 12(1), 21582440211067220. 
Al-Weshah, G., Kakeesh, D., & Alhammad, F. (2022). Entrepreneurial Marketing in Jordanian SMEs: Initiatives and 
Challenges. Entrepreneurial Rise in the Middle East and North Africa: The Influence of Quadruple Helix on 
Technological Innovation.

[Page 11]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 46  
 
Araújo, G. R., Kato, H. T., & Del Corso, J. M. (2022). Dynamic capabilities, strategic p lanning and performance: A 
virtuous and mutually reinforcing cycle. Journal of Management & Organization, 1-17. 
Artin, P. (2022). Current Research in Environmental Sustainability.  Current Research in Environmental 
Sustainability, 4, 100138. 
Ashby, J. A. (1986). Methodology for the participation of small farmers in the design of on-farm trials. Agricultural 
administration, 22(1), 1-19. 
Bada, M., & Nurse, J. R. (2019). Developing cybersecurity education and awareness programmes for small -and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Information & Computer Security. 
Bag, S., Yadav, G., Wood, L. C., Dhamija, P., & Joshi, S. (2020). Industry 4.0 and the circular economy: Resource 
melioration in logistics. Resources Policy, 68, 101776. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2020.101776 
Balasubramanian, S., Shukla, V., & Chanchaichujit, J. (2020). Firm size implications for environmental sustainability 
of supply chains: evidence from the UAE. Management of Environmental Quality: An International Journal. 
Bautista, A., León, A., Rojas, J., & Raymundo, C. (2019, August). Strategic planning model to increase the 
profitability of an HR outsourcing SME through digital transformation. In  International Conference on Human 
Interaction and Emerging Technologies (pp. 856-862). Springer, Cham 
Bhadu, J., Bhamu, J., Singh, D., & Sangwan, K. S. (2022). An ISM approach for lean implementation barriers in 
labour intensive Indian ceramic SMEs.  International Journal of Productivity and Quality Management,  35(3), 
281-307. 
Bhatt, D. K., Shah, S., & Joshi, S. (2018). New Imperatives in Tourism -based Micro, Small Firms in India: Public 
Policies and Strategic Issues. In Sustainable Supply Chain Capabilities of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises- 
Influences, Practices, and Opportunities (Vol. 1, pp. 124–129). Emerald Publishing, United Kingdom. 
Brouthers, K. D., & Nakos, G. (2004). SME entry mode choice and performance: A transaction cost 
perspective. Entrepreneurship theory and practice, 28(3), 229-247. 
Chou, K.-P., Prasad, M., Lin, Y. Y., Joshi, S., Lin, C.-T., & Chang, J. Y. (2014). Takagi-Sugeno-Kang type collaborative 
fuzzy rule based system. Computational Intelligence and Data Mining (CIDM), 2014 IEEE Symposium On, 315–
320. 
Chowdhury, S., Dey, P. K., Rodríguez-Espíndola, O., Parkes, G., Tuyet, N. T. A., Long, D. D., & Ha, T. P. (2022). Impact 
of Organisational Factors on the Circular Economy Practices and Sustainable Performance of Small and 
Medium-sized Enterprises in Vietnam. Journal of Business Research, 147, 362-378. 
Côté, E., Đukan, M., de Brauwer, C. P. S., & Wüstenhagen, R. (2022). The price of actor diversity: Measuring project 
developers’ willingness to accept risks in renewable energy auctions. Energy Policy, 163, 112835. 
Crovini, C. (2022). Crisis Management and Risk Management in SMEs: Towards an Integrated Early Warning 
System. In Crisis Management for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) (pp. 215-233). Springer, Cham. 
Ćudić, B., Klemenčič, M., & Štefanić, I. (2022). Factors Influencing Information and Communications Technology 
Usage. Tehnički vjesnik, 29(3), 943-948. 
Das, M., Rangarajan, K., & Dutta, G. (2020). Corporate sustainability in SMEs: an Asian perspective. Journal of Asia 
Business Studies. 
Didonet, S. R., Fearne, A., & Simmons, G. (2020). Determining the presence of a long -term/short-term dilemma 
for SMEs when adopting strategic orientation to improve performance.  International Small Business 
Journal, 38(2), 90-110. 
Dinnetz, M. K. , & Mireles, M. S. (2022). The Promise of Patent -Backed Finance for SMEs and Universities, and 
Shifting Patent Eligible Subject Matter. Lewis & Clark L. Rev., 26, 57. 
Fraj, E., Martínez, E., & Matute, J. (2013). Green marketing in B2B organisations: an emp irical analysis from the 
natural‐resource‐based view of the firm. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing.