--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 3673 - 3922
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 45  
 
‒ Investing in technology development and enhanced logistic support have important roles to play in 
reducing production costs, based on the derived model. Managers and owners should pursue new 
possibilities, such as vehicle communication and innovations relevant to firm, to reinforce and improve 
logistics operations. 
‒ Top management operating SMEs should be aware that devel oping partnerships with the sustainable 
supply chain will result in new opportunities for business. The sustainable supply chain relationships, 
however, arise as a result of the implementation of the enablers defined in this model of hierarchy. 
‒ Investment in upgrading waste management of industry facilities to be more consistent with the ideals 
of a circular economy will have a huge impact on the sustainability of industry. 
‒ In creating awareness regarding sustainability, management and staff support for sus tainable best 
practices is important. Sustainability and environmental awareness raising activities are just as 
successful and sensitive to being discussed as help for leadership and can contribute to new business 
opportunities with green suppliers. 
‒ For manufacturing SMEs, incentives and tax reductions at the government to promote international 
sustainable supply chain partnerships and enhanced supply chain networks are especially relevant. 
‒ Promotion of green manufacturing, green purchasing and green packag ing is also a crucial step for 
sustainability of firms. As there is a constant pressure of customer towards adopting green practices in 
manufacturing sector in an organisation. 
‒ Although Supplier’s trust, Motivation and Training to adopt sustainability is a  key point to be consider 
for green practices. 
‒ All industries should also pay attention to social area. 
Acknowledgements   
The authors acknowledge the reviewers and editor of the JDAIC for their critical evaluation of the manuscript and 
to help in improving its quality through rigorous process of review. 
 
References 
 
Aggarwal, A. K., & Joshi, S. (2014). Customer perspective in closed loop -sustainable tourism supply chain 
management: issues and concerns. International Journal in Management & Social Science, 2(10), 85–90. 
Aggarwal, A. K., & Joshi, S. (2014). Tourism Destination Competitiveness from Stakeholders’ Perspectives: 
Influences and Evidence from Uttarakhand. International Journal in Management \& Social Science, 2(9), 79–
89. 
Aldaas, R., Mohamed, R., A li, M. H., & Ismail, N. A. (2022). Green supply chain management and SMEs 
environmental performance: green HRM practices as antecedent from service sector of emerging 
economy. International Journal of Emergency Services. 
Ali Abbasi, G., Abdul Rahim, N. F., Wu, H., Iranmanesh, M., & Keong, B. N. C. (2022). Determinants of SME’s Social 
Media Marketing Adoption: Competitive Industry as a Moderator. SAGE Open, 12(1), 21582440211067220. 
Al-Weshah, G., Kakeesh, D., & Alhammad, F. (2022). Entrepreneurial Marketing in Jordanian SMEs: Initiatives and 
Challenges. Entrepreneurial Rise in the Middle East and North Africa: The Influence of Quadruple Helix on 
Technological Innovation.