--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C19
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 4971 - 5220
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
value chain integration (13), such as the setting of production groups and cooperatives. Although natural 
capital presented mainly positive outcomes (20), a relatively high number of observations (10) indicated 
some negative effects in terms of biodiversity, water management, and the adoption of agrochemicals at 
the farm level associated with VSSs ( Table 4 and Figure 4 ).
Figure 5 illustrated a comparison of the effects of VSSs on the SLF across social, economic, and 
environmental indicators in Vietnam and Ghana. Overall, VSSs had positive impacts in both countries; 
however, the extent and nature of these effects varied also according to the specific value chain. Ghana 
generally exhibited more substantial positive outcomes across most indicators, particularly in economic and 
social aspects. In Ghana, VSSs significantly increased income levels for local farmers, with 18 positive 
outcomes compared to only 6 in Vietnam. Similarly, the impact of VSSs on agricultural yield was stronger in 
Ghana, where 9 positive outcomes were reported, whereas in Vietnam recorded only 3. In terms of labour 
rights, Ghana saw improvements with 5 positive outcomes, reflecting enhanced working conditions and fair 
labour practices. In contrast, Vietnam showed 1 positive outcome, indicating that improvements in labour 
rights were less pronounced. Additionally, VSSs improved market access in Ghana, with 9 positive 
outcomes, while Vietnam had only 2 positive outcomes in this area. VSSs in Vietnam displayed more 
neutral and variable impacts, suggesting that, while there were benefits, they were less consistent or 
pronounced compared to those observed in Ghana. In Vietnam, capacity building received 3 positive 
outcomes, which was significantly lower than Ghana's 11 positive outcomes, indicating a less extensive 
impact. Similarly, although VSSs in Vietnam made some progress in reducing child labour, with 1 positive 
outcome, in Ghana, VSSs achieved more success with 4 positive results. Moreover, the use of agrochemicals 
had a more negative effect in Vietnam: there were 3 negative outcomes associated with the use of 
agrochemicals in Vietnam, whereas 1 negative outcome in Ghana.
A few indicators, including ‘biodiversity’, ‘tools and equipment’, and ‘land access’, were not covered by 
the reviewed studies conducted in Vietnam. This gap in indicators reflects the thematic focus of the 
available evidence: most of the studies examined financial capital (e.g. yield, income, costs) rather than 
physical and natural capital indicators. Moreover, some assessments and evaluation reports in Vietnam 
were conducted at the farm or cooperative level and did not systematically collect and analyse land tenure 
and biodiversity data.
Figure 5. Comparison of the effects of VSSs on the SLF indicators in Vietnam and Ghana, using a traffic-light 
visualisation. Note: The following indicators - biodiversity, tools and equipment and land access - were not addressed 
by the selected studies on the effects of VSSs in Vietnam.
10
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

[Page 12]
Figure 6 showed the positive contributions of VSSs to the selected SDGs. SDG 2 ‘Zero hunger’ emerged 
as the most frequently addressed goal, appearing 27 times. This highlights the significant attention given 
by VSSs to increasing yield and income while promoting sustainable farming systems for smallholder 
farmers. SDG 8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’ was addressed 14 times, emphasising the relevant role 
of VSSs as market-based solutions for promoting fair labour conditions, prohibiting child labour and 
enhancing integration for farmers in the value chains. SDG 12 ‘Responsible consumption and production’ 
was found 10 times. VSSs help to meet specific sustainable production standards by reducing the use of 
agrochemicals and enhancing waste management minimising the negative impacts of chemicals on human 
health and the environment. SDG 6 ‘Clean water and sanitation’ was addressed 4 times, highlighting the 
positive effects related to the promotion of more efficient water management practices for the protection 
and the restoration of the agroecosystems. Finally, SDG 5 ‘Gender equality’ and SDG 1 ‘No poverty’ were 
considered 2 and 1 times, respectively, reflecting a lesser but still notable emphasis on promoting the role 
of women in the value chains and improving access to land for poorer farmers through VSSs.
4. Discussion
The findings of the analytical assessment are discussed in the context of a wide range of international 
research, including meta-analyses and qualitative reviews on the impact of VSSs on smallholder farmers' 
livelihoods. In line with the structure of the paper, we begin by outlining the limitations and areas for future 
research to frame the scope and methodological constraints of this study. We then present the main 
findings, offering deeper insights into the effects of VSSs on the SLF indicators, acknowledging both 
promises and trade-offs, and conclude with targeted policy recommendations.
Figure 6. Main contributions of VSSs to the selected SDGs (frequency). Note: The total number of observations (58) 
exceeds the total number of considered publications (26), as a VSS may address several SDGs simultaneously resulting in 
their inclusion multiple times in the count.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 11