--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C33
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 17
Word Range: 8724 - 8973
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 17]
4.3.2.  Barriers to implementation of sustainable techniques
According to Waarts et al. ( 2015 ), many certified farmers did not fully adopt recommended sustainable practices 
due to several reasons: i) budget constraints; ii) lack of tools and equipment; iii) insufficient training provisions 
over time. Consequently, some certified farmers reported only small improvements in environmental indicators, 
whereas non-certified farmers observed a deterioration in environmental performance in the long time (Nelson 
et al., 2013 ). As noted by Smith ( 2010 ) banana certified farmers struggle to fully apply sustainable farming 
techniques until they see proof of their efficacy from early adopters, while Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ) highlighted 
that 10% of farmers in the cocoa plantations were not landowners, and thus did not benefit from access to 
training programmes, making them unable to apply newly learned methods. Smith ( 2010 ) observed a significant 
decline in the use of sustainable practices over time, even among certified banana farmers. This decline also 
suggested that other factors (e.g. increased international demand for coca) might have conflicted with the 
adoption of sustainable practices and contributed to the further adoption of detrimental practices (e.g. 
deforestation, slash and burn). Furthermore, Smith ( 2010 ) pointed out that the increased environmental 
requirements promoted by VSSs sometimes lacked sufficient technical guidance, which posed challenges for 
farmers in fully implementing these environmental standards.
Even under VSSs, the high use of inputs presented significant challenges in Vietnam. Ho et al. ( 2018 ) and 
Hung Anh et al. (2019) highlighted that certified coffee production is often based on the excessive use of 
chemical and water inputs. Similarly, Tu et al. ( 2019 ) also noted that certified rice farmers in Vietnam's 
Mekong Delta (MKD) often use inputs, like certified seeds, inefficiently, contributing to both poor economic 
and environmental indicators. High agrochemical dependence not only reduced biodiversity and degraded 
water quality and soil fertility but also heightened farmers’ exposure to market volatility. As fertiliser and 
pesticide prices transmit external shocks (e.g. trade tariffs and restrictions), they erode margins and liquidity 
and increase the risk of indebtedness for farmers (Régnier et al., 2025 ).
Despite the availability of more ecologically efficient traditional farming techniques, such as floating rice, 
and local rice varieties that are more resilient to climate change effects (e.g. drought and floods), farmers 
often perceive these practices as technically less effective than those promoted by private and public 
extension services (Tu et al., 2019 ).
4.3.3.  Biodiversity
Smith ( 2010 ) pointed out that VSSs do not address issues associated with monocropping systems, which 
negatively impact ecosystems and natural resources by reducing biodiversity and crop resistance to pests 
and diseases. This, in turn, led to more frequent chemical treatments in banana plantations, depleting soil 
fertility and reducing yields in the long run (Smith, 2010 ). Similarly, Oosterveer et al. ( 2014 ) reported that 
the oil palm varieties adopted by VSSs were high-yielding, rather than local cultivars, which were preferred 
by the industry for their high productivity and standardised characteristics, thereby reducing oil palm 
biodiversity at the field level and affecting local dietary patterns. Consistently, Wätzold et al. ( 2025 ) 
observed that VSSs in Ghana's cocoa sector provided limited ecological benefits, showing no significant 
impact on biodiversity indicators like vegetation structure and animal diversity. Likewise, prior studies note 
that many certification schemes lack robust biodiversity monitoring frameworks and consistent indicators, 
which constrains the ability to detect ecological change over time (Castka et al., 2016 ; Potts et al., 2016 ).
4.4.  Challenges and trade-offs
The following subsections aim to explore how VSS adoption might exacerbate existing disparities among 
farmers, focusing on: i) gender inequalities, ii) the distribution of price premiums, and iii) differences 
between small and large landholders.
4.4.1.  Women involvement in VSSs
According to Smith ( 2010 ), while no wage differences were found between men and women performing the 
same duties on banana plantations, women were often assigned to lower-level tasks, negatively impacting their 
overall earnings. A study by Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ) indicated that female cocoa farmers under VSSs 
remained more vulnerable and marginalised compared to their male counterparts. Nelson et al. ( 2013 ) observed 
that men generally dominated decision-making around income control, with no significant changes in intra- 
16
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA