--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 5
Word Range: 2647 - 2896
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
The final database included 26 studies, comprising scientific publications and reports ( Table 3 ). The 
selected 26 publications examining the effects of VSSs on smallholder livelihoods comprised 16 peer- 
reviewed articles, 9 technical reports and 1 working paper. Among these, a subset of 21 publications 
conducted a statistical analysis comparing the performance of farms implementing VSSs through 
matching processes, such as comparisons between certified and non-certified farmers or pre- and 
post-intervention.
Finally, an analytical framework was developed in Excel, and the selected socioeconomic and environ -
mental indicators were tested on a limited number of publications (4) to guide the systematic extraction of 
information from the reviewed papers.
2.4.  Data analysis techniques
A vote-counting method was employed to identify general trends between the adoption of VSSs and the 
selected socioeconomic and environmental indicators based on the SLF (D’Annolfo et al., 2017 ; Knowler & 
Bradshaw, 2007 ; Prokopy et al., 2008 ). The following classification of effects was adopted:
• Positive: when the study documented a statistically significant improvement or a clearly stated beneficial 
change in the indicator among certified farmers compared to non-certified farmers, or when the authors 
explicitly attributed the improvement to VSS participation;  
• Neutral: when the study reported no statistically significant difference in the indicator between certified 
and non-certified farmers, or when results were mixed or inconclusive, with no clear directional change 
attributable to sustainability certification; 
Table 2. List of selected SDGs and related targets considered in the analysis.    
SDG Target
1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the 
vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to 
basic services, ownership and control over land and other forms of 
property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology and 
financial services, including microfinance
2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition 
and promote sustainable agriculture
2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale 
food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, 
pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, 
other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, 
markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment
2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement 
resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, 
that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to 
climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters 
and that progressively improve land and soil quality
5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere
6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and 
ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water 
scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from 
water scarcity
8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work 
for all
8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support productive 
activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, 
and encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, small- and 
medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services
8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end 
modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and 
elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and 
use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular 
women migrants, and those in precarious employment
12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals 
and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed 
international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, 
water and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human 
health and the environment
Note: Authors’ elaboration based on UN ( 2015 ). 
4
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA