--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C20
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 5221 - 5581
Word Count: 361
--------------------

[Page 12]
Figure 6 showed the positive contributions of VSSs to the selected SDGs. SDG 2 ‘Zero hunger’ emerged 
as the most frequently addressed goal, appearing 27 times. This highlights the significant attention given 
by VSSs to increasing yield and income while promoting sustainable farming systems for smallholder 
farmers. SDG 8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’ was addressed 14 times, emphasising the relevant role 
of VSSs as market-based solutions for promoting fair labour conditions, prohibiting child labour and 
enhancing integration for farmers in the value chains. SDG 12 ‘Responsible consumption and production’ 
was found 10 times. VSSs help to meet specific sustainable production standards by reducing the use of 
agrochemicals and enhancing waste management minimising the negative impacts of chemicals on human 
health and the environment. SDG 6 ‘Clean water and sanitation’ was addressed 4 times, highlighting the 
positive effects related to the promotion of more efficient water management practices for the protection 
and the restoration of the agroecosystems. Finally, SDG 5 ‘Gender equality’ and SDG 1 ‘No poverty’ were 
considered 2 and 1 times, respectively, reflecting a lesser but still notable emphasis on promoting the role 
of women in the value chains and improving access to land for poorer farmers through VSSs.
4. Discussion
The findings of the analytical assessment are discussed in the context of a wide range of international 
research, including meta-analyses and qualitative reviews on the impact of VSSs on smallholder farmers' 
livelihoods. In line with the structure of the paper, we begin by outlining the limitations and areas for future 
research to frame the scope and methodological constraints of this study. We then present the main 
findings, offering deeper insights into the effects of VSSs on the SLF indicators, acknowledging both 
promises and trade-offs, and conclude with targeted policy recommendations.
Figure 6. Main contributions of VSSs to the selected SDGs (frequency). Note: The total number of observations (58) 
exceeds the total number of considered publications (26), as a VSS may address several SDGs simultaneously resulting in 
their inclusion multiple times in the count.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 11