--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1119 - 1368
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
provides financial incentives, known as price premiums, for farmers to meet certification standards (Addae- 
Boadu et al., 2017 ). However, in recent years several scholars have noted that the notion of ‘voluntary’ 
certification is increasingly misleading, particularly in export-oriented sectors such as cocoa, coffee, and palm 
oil. Although formally optional, VSSs very often operate as de facto market requirements (Elamin & de Córdoba, 
2020 ). International buyers and processing companies frequently required certified products as a precondition 
for sourcing (Elamin & de Córdoba, 2020 ). This dynamic has created forms of market-driven coercion whereby 
smallholder farmers have to comply with certification to maintain market access, thus limiting their autonomy in 
decision-making (Bennett, 2021 ; Bitzer & Steijn, 2019 ; Ponte & Sturgeon, 2014 ).
As emphasised by Oya et al. ( 2018 ) and Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ) the VSSs have the potential to provide 
positive economic, environmental and social benefits to smallholder farmers, contributing to several 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the same time. By promoting the adoption of sustainable farming 
practices and increasing product quality, VSSs empower farmers to participate in high-remunerative value 
chains, such as those in the EU and North American markets (Akrong et al., 2022 ). However, the adoption of 
VSSs may also impose additional financial burdens for producers, such as certification costs, and the 
enforcement of higher labour standards (e.g. ILO Conventions), which can be challenging for poorer 
smallholder farmers to meet (Maertens & Swinnen, 2015 ). Moreover, voluntary certifications might also 
shift local production away or redirect agricultural goods from food production to more profitable 
commodity markets (Oosterveer et al., 2014 ). Finally, the lack of institutional coordination, financial and 
technical capacities for accessible certification in developing countries could also represent a significant 
barrier for smallholders in adopting VSSs (FAO, 2014 ; Meemken, 2020 ).
Given the varying effects presented in the literature on the impacts of VSSs, further investigation and 
assessment is needed to understand how certification schemes can effectively contribute to improving 
smallholder farmers’ livelihoods. Adopting an inclusive approach, this study aims to address the following 
research questions:
• Are VSSs effective in improving smallholder farmers’ livelihoods within food-agricultural commodity 
value chains?  
• What are the main advantages and trade-offs associated with VSSs adoption in Ghana and Vietnam?  
• To what extent can VSSs be leveraged as sustainable market-oriented tools to achieve the SDGs Agenda 
by 2030?
2. Methodology
2.1. Socioeconomic and environmental indicators
The analysis of the effects of VSSs on smallholder farmers’ livelihoods is based on the Sustainable Livelihood 
Framework (SLF), originally developed by Chambers & Conway, ( 1992 ) and later adapted by the Department for 
International Development of the UK (DFID, 1999 ). According to the SLF, a livelihood is made up of capabilities, 
material and social capitals, and activities required to earn a living (DFID, 1999 ). The SLF has been widely used as 
a tool to analyse rural poverty from a multidimensional perspective (Bennett & Franzel, 2013 ; Nelson et al., 2013 ; 
Garibaldi et al., 2017 ; D’Annolfo et al., 2017 ) and to assess which components of certification schemes have the 
greatest impact on farmers’ livelihoods (Fenger et al., 2017 ). The SLF is based on five capital endowments: 
human, social, financial, physical and natural ( Table 1 ). For each of the aforementioned capitals, three relevant 
socioeconomic and environmental indicators were selected based on the literature on VSSs to systematically 
extract and collect quantitative and qualitative evidence ( Table 1 ).
In order to identify the relevant SDGs for the analysis, we referenced the studies of Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ) and 
Kosolapova et al. ( 2023 ), which offered comprehensive mappings of VSSs against the 17 SDGs. Therefore, a 
shortlist of SDGs and related targets was selected according to the main scope of this research ( Table 2 ).
The SLF guided both the coding and synthesis of evidence by classifying each identified livelihood outcome 
under one of the five capitals: human, social, financial, physical, and natural. This structure ensured analytical 
consistency across heterogeneous studies and enabled a systematic comparison of VSS effects across indicators, 
commodities and value chains in different countries. The SLF framework also supported the integration of 
findings into broader sustainability dimensions aligned with the selected SDGs.
2
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA