--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C27
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 7113 - 7362
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 15]
4.2.3.  Total costs
As emphasised by Rietberg and Slingerland ( 2016 ) and Ingram et al. ( 2018 ), certified farmers experienced a 
substantial increase in total production expenses due to the significant rise in labour costs per hectare, 
especially when adopting organic production systems, and additional expenses related to monitoring, 
audits and administrative costs. Compliance with VSSs often entailed higher expenditures on quality inputs, 
such as fertilisers, seeds, and agrochemicals, which have experienced sharp price increases in recent years 
(OECD-FAO, 2024 ). In addition, rising energy prices, higher transport costs, and port disruptions associated 
with recent international crises (e.g. the Russia–Ukraine war) have further increased input-related expenses, 
with pronounced effects in developing countries (Leconte-Demarsy & Rice, 2025 ).
Kleemann et al. ( 2014 ) pointed out the importance of determining the total profitability of adopting 
VSSs, which is determined by several market factors: (i) the size and the sustainability of the premium over 
time; (ii) the percentage of the price premium that farmers receive; and (iii) the total cost of the adopted 
farming method. Ingram et al. ( 2018 ), Kuit et al. ( 2016 ), Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ), Waarts et al. ( 2015 ) 
and Iddrisu et al. ( 2020 ) highlighted that, while the overall performance of VSS adoption may appear mixed 
and modest compared to non-certified farmers, a closer examination revealed significant productivity and 
income increases among certified farmers who received more comprehensive support services, including 
training, financial services, and farm inputs (e.g. fertilisers, agrochemicals and protective equipment). 
Notably, the comparative study of Bordey et al. ( 2016 ) found that certified farmers in the Mekong Delta 
region were raising their productivity, largely attributed to intensive mechanisation, especially in the 
application of seeds, fertilisers and pesticides. Stuart et al. ( 2018 ) suggested that the ongoing mechanisa -
tion process in Vietnam might reduce dependency on farmer labour, which is becoming scarce in rural 
areas, while also decreasing total production expenses. Therefore, the availability and the price of produc -
tion inputs, as well as the level of mechanisation are relevant factors when assessing the overall costs 
associated with VSSs at the field level.
4.2.4.  Capacity-building initiatives
Numerous studies highlighted the significant role of capacity building, such as mandatory training programmes, 
for farmers adhering to sustainability standards (Smith, 2010 ; Waarts et al., 2013 ). Waarts et al. ( 2013 ) noted that 
certified farmers were overall satisfied with the training provisions, as they improved social interactions, 
facilitated knowledge exchange, and helped solve common issues among farmers. Similarly, Mauthofer and 
Santos ( 2022 ) found that, despite labour-intensive conditions, farmers highly valued capacity-building provisions 
by VSS programmes, which also include training on farm management and work safety. These trainings led to 
increased production, better record-keeping, and improved savings practices (Mauthofer & Santos, 2022 ).
According to Bennett et al. ( 2013 ), certified farmers benefitting from capacity building initiatives demon -
strated a high level of awareness regarding child labour regulations and the importance of education for 
children. On the one hand, Waarts et al. ( 2013 ) and Bandanaa et al. ( 2021 ) observed that in the cocoa value 
chain, children often assist their parents with harvesting, pod breaking, weeding, fertilising and transporting; on 
the other hand, Bennett et al. ( 2013 ) found that fewer children worked on certified farms, which also had lower 
injury rates compared to non-certified farms with higher child involvement in farming activities. In line with 
these results, Waarts et al. ( 2015 ) noted that certified farms had fewer children under 14 years old engaging in 
hazardous activities compared to uncertified farms and exhibited higher school enrolment rates. This finding 
was also confirmed by Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ), who reported improved access to primary education in 
cocoa communities adopting VSS schemes, with 75% to 85% of children successfully completing primary 
education. As a consequence, capacity-building initiatives are key components of VSS schemes, supporting 
smallholder farming livelihoods by aiming not only to increase productivity but also to enhance social well- 
being, health, and fair labour practices among smallholder farmers.
4.2.5.  Spillover effects
VSS programmes facilitated the emergence of more professional farmer associations, fostered competition 
and extension services and enabled market channels for certified products, while positioning farmers within 
global value chains (GVCs) (Furumo & Lambin, 2021 ; Ponte, 2019 ). This impact was particularly evident in a 
study by Ingram et al. ( 2018 ) in Ghana, which highlighted the crucial role of VSSs in rapidly scaling up 
sustainable cocoa production and providing smallholder farmers with access to lucrative markets in the EU 
14
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA