--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C45
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 21
Word Range: 11830 - 12079
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 21]
incomes, preserving local identity, environmental integrity, and consumer trust in sustainable and ethical 
products (Bennett, 2021 ).
4.5.6. Leveraging VSSs contribution to the SDGs
It is widely acknowledged that there is significant alignment between VSSs and the SDGs, with clear 
potential for a mutually supportive relationship, making VSSs valuable tools for governments as well 
(Akrong et al., 2022 ; Kosolapova et al., 2023 ). In line with Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ), we found that the three 
SDGs most widely addressed by VSSs are SDG 2, 8 and 12. Although VSSs are oriented towards the 
sustainability of value chains, some of the impacts on farmers, producer organisations and local communi -
ties may not be explicitly linked to SDG targets but can create enabling conditions for their achievement 
(Bissinger et al., 2020 ). Additionally, VSSs can support governments by collecting disaggregated data to 
understand the situation of vulnerable groups, such as women and indigenous minorities, and by reporting 
on SDG progress through sharing impact data (Kosolapova et al., 2023 ). With the aim of leveraging VSSs’ 
contribution to the achievement of the SDGs, the recommendations of this study are twofold: i) better align 
the socioeconomic and environmental objectives of different VSSs with the SDG indicators; ii) promote and 
develop an independent monitoring and evaluation system to assess the actual impacts of VSS initiatives in 
the agricultural sector.
5. Conclusions
The adoption of the SLF provides a comprehensive understanding of the significant effects of VSSs on the 
livelihoods of Ghanaian and Vietnamese smallholder farmers producing crop-based food commodities for 
international markets. VSSs can reduce smallholders' production constraints, expand market opportunities, 
and enhance farmers' livelihoods by addressing various forms of capital - human, financial, social, physical 
and natural - to varying extents. They are effective market-based tools for promoting sustainability across 
agricultural commodity value chains, although not without limitations. Despite their generally positive 
effects, the systematic review highlights the context-specific nature of VSS impacts, which differ across 
value chains and between countries.
On the one hand, VSSs need to better align their interventions with the social and economic characteristics of 
farmers while considering the site-specific and biophysical contexts in which they operate. This involves tailoring 
service packages to farmers' needs and addressing critical issues, such as improving input management (e.g. 
pesticides, certified seeds, and water), implementing innovative initiatives to increase women's participation in 
value chains, eliminating persistent child labour practices, and establishing robust monitoring and reporting 
systems. It is also essential to enhance the gender and youth sensitivity of certification systems to ensure that 
VSSs contribute to more inclusive and equitable rural development outcomes. Additionally, VSSs should avoid 
encouraging over-specialisation and its associated risks, such as commodity price volatility and climate change 
effects, by promoting crop diversification and integrated farming approaches.
On the other hand, governments should focus on overcoming structural barriers, such as insecure land rights, 
poor market infrastructure (e.g. storage and market facilities) and limited access to credit for smallholder 
farmers. These challenges underscore the need for investments in Ghana and Vietnam to close sustainability 
gaps, develop policies that address market constraints for certified products, improve extension services, 
enhance stakeholder integration and coordination in the value chain, and raise sustainability standards.
As outlined in SDG 17, revitalising global partnerships for sustainable development is essential. This 
should not only strengthen public-private partnerships but also foster broader societal collaboration among 
producers, consumers, researchers, and civil society organisations to create a foundation for a meaningful 
transition to sustainable food systems.
Acknowledgements
The authors thank two anonymous reviewers who provided excellent feedback to improve the quality of 
this manuscript. This research was conducted within the framework of the Trade4Sustainable Development 
project (https://www.trade4sd.eu/).
20
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA