--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C25
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 16
Word Range: 6509 - 6758
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 16]
15 
Conclusions on other residue monitoring programmes 
33. The PHT and PET schemes for aquaculture are implemented as planned by the 
competent authorities  and they are useful in helping identify non- compliant batches 
and preventing their certification by the EIC and consequent export to the EU.  
Nevertheless, the difference in the non- compliance rates between the PHT and PET 
programmes is hard to explain and has not been investigated by the competent 
authorities.  The additional testing of the products under establishments’ own-control 
programmes has the potential to provide further assurances on the compliance of the 
commodities in question.   
 
5.1.5 Follow-up of non-compliant results 
Findings 
5.1.5.1 Aquaculture 
34. The EIC is responsible for coordinating the follow -up investigations  of RASFF  
notifications. It calls on the concerned EIA to create an assessment panel comprising of 
experts from the EIA, MPED A and the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology. The 
role of the panel is to carry out documentary and on-the-spot verification at the relevant 
processing establishments and farms.  
35. The relevant EIA is responsible for coordinating the follow-up of non-compliant results 
found in the respective residue monitoring plans . After transmitting the alert 
notification along with the test results through an elect ronic system, a panel is created 
consisting of the EIA, MPEDA and the concerned  CAA to jointly carry out 
documentary and on-the-spot verification in the processing establishments and farms, to 
take follow-up samples and to identify the origin  of the contamination. A joint report is 
created and the EIAs are to take measures as required with regard to the processing 
establishments or farms concerned; the CAA does likewise for the hatcheries that fall 
under its jurisdiction.  
36. The EIAs are also responsible for follow -up investigation s of PET non-compliant 
results.  There is no legal requirement for the non- compliant ELISA results in the 
MPEDA PHT programme to be followed up (20).  
37. The residue monitoring plan contains documented procedures for the management of 
non-compliant results  found in the residue monitoring plan and procedures are also 
described in the EIC executive instruction for aquaculture species  (21). T hese 
procedures largely address key elements of follow -up of non- compliant results as 
 
(20) In its response to the draft report the c ompetent authority noted that MPEDA on its own, has investigated 
all seven PHT positive cases to trace the root cause. 
(21) Chapter 13 in the “National residue control plan for aquaculture products”  and chapter 10.2 of the 
“Executive instructions for approval and monitoring of fish and fishery products for export”.