--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 12 to Page 14
Word Range: 4074 - 5542
Word Count: 1,469
--------------------

[Page 12]
11 
EU requirements  (12). In line with these instructions, sa mpling is unforeseen, spread 
throughout the year  and covers the main production area s. Furthermore, residue 
monitoring samples are collected  using adequate sampling material , sealed and 
transported ensuring their integrity, traceability and legal validity.  
13. The 2021 residue monitoring plan for aquaculture (including samples at all hatcheries 
to be analysed for nitrofurans and chloramphenicol) and the 2021/22 plans for milk and 
poultry were implemented as planned.  
14. For milk the EIC instruction on how to implement the residue monitoring plan reduces 
the likelihood of detecting substances included in Group A6 (banned antimicrobials) 
and Group B1 (antimicrobials)  and in Group B2a (anthelmintics) .  This is due to the 
fact that the EIC instructed their laboratory to divide the total number of samples in to 7 
subsets that are each analysed with a multiresidue method, but where only certain 
substances included in the multi -residue method had to be reported in a given subset . 
Thus, if a non- compliance had been found for any of the other substances included in 
the subset´s multiresidue method it would not have been reported as a non -compliance.  
This is contrary to what would be expected in the EU (13). 
15. Similar to EU rules, aquaculture s amples to be analysed for Group A were taken at 
farm/hatchery level at all stages of farming  (14). Milk samples were taken from 
individual farms when delivered to  milk collection centres  (15) and poultry samples to 
be analysed for  substances in Group A were taken both at farm and at slaughterhouse 
level (16). There was a mechanism to  avoid that samples were taken from the same 
farms, either at farm level or at processing establishment level. At one poultry 
processing plant visited by the audit team all 9 2 of the farms supplying it (and all of 
which intend to provide for the EU market, should India be successfully listed in the 
requisite EU Regulations for animal health, public health and residues)  were eligible to 
be sampled.  For the second processor visited, 723 out of the 1,937 farms supplying it 
were deemed to be able to supply to the EU market (as per the caveats above)  and this 
second processor had specific days on which only poultry from thos e 723 farms would 
be processed and from which residue monitoring samples were taken.  
16. The implementation of the aquaculture national residue monitoring plan is  regularly 
monitored through an on- line data base by MPEDA which notifies all of the MPEDA 
offices/centres and the EIC about the plan’s implementation status and the non -
compliant results found . Monthly updates on t he implementation of the poultry and 
milk residue monitoring plans are reported by the respective EIA offices to the EIC.  
17. The residue mo nitoring plan for aquaculture specifies  that samples have to be 
forwarded to the designated laboratory within three days and reach the laboratory after 
 
(12) Annex III to Directive 96/23/EC, Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808. 
(13) Point 1(a) of Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 (read in conjunction with Points 1 and 2 of the Annex 
III to Directive 96/23/EC and Point 1(B) of Chapter 1 of the Annex to Decision 97/747/EC).  
(14) Point 1 of Chapter III of the Annex IV to Directive 96/23/EC. 
(15) Point 3 of the Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808. 
(16) Chapter 2 of the Annex IV to Directive 96/23/EC.

[Page 13]
12 
dispatch within 30 hours . The plans for milk and poultry specify  that samples have to 
be delivered to the designated EIA laboratory within 48 hours of being taken. 
Conclusions on the implementation of the residue monitoring plan 
18. The residue monitoring plans for aquaculture animals , poultry and milk are  
implemented in a timely manner and in line with planned arrangements.  Nevertheless, 
the sampling and reporting policy adopted for milk could impair the ability of the 
competent authority to identify non-compliant samples.  
5.1.4 Other residues monitoring programmes 
5.1.4.1 PHT for aquaculture 
19. National legislation (17) requires that export establishments approved for export to the 
EU can source aquaculture products only from  enrolled farms (see finding 3)  that 
participate in the official PHT programme . This programme requires that all 
aquaculture batches harvested  at farm are sampled and tested prior to harvest for the 
presence of chloramphenicol and four nitrofuran metabolites . Non-registered farms 
will, following a successful inspection, then be registered and subsequently will be able 
to participate in the PHT programme. 
20. There is a process to ensure traceability of the PHT result to the specific farm and pond. 
Every pond is enrolled and identified with its  Global Positioning System  co-ordinates 
that define its exact surface area and location. Each pond is sampled  by MPEDA staff  
and harvested separately and no aggregate sampl es are allowed. Furthermore, sampling 
forms have to include all of the required information to ensure traceability to the pond.  
However, on two farms visited in Odisha , the audit team found inconsistencies in the 
traceability records concerning stocking and harvesting data and the number of ponds 
compared to the data in the MPEDA database. In relation to the size of the sample, 
officials calculate the estimated size of the batch in the pond based on the size of the 
pond, the stocking density and the average size of the shrimp.  
21. All samples are then sent to an MPEDA -run network of 15 laboratories performing 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA).  The cost of the ELISA tests is paid for 
by the farmer; MPEDA pays for the cost of any confirmatory tests required. Once the 
testing is done, the result reports have a validity of 20 days. If the pond is not harvested  
in that timeframe , sampling and testing needs  to be repeated. When the pond is 
harvested, the system imposes a 3-month period until the next PHT sampling. 
22. The three processing plants visited by the audit team had put in place mechanisms to 
minimise the risk of non -PHT tested product to be included in the batch, such as the 
crosschecking of amounts received with the production es timated for the pond. All the 
examples reviewed by the team during the audit of consignments of aquaculture 
 
(17) S.O. 497(E) of 10 March 2011.

[Page 14]
13 
products received at the processing plants, exported or subject to PET testing were 
accompanied by PHT results.  
23. Since January 2020 until August 2022 there were 7 non-compliant PHT test results 
recorded by MPEDA.  
5.1.4.2 PET scheme for aquaculture 
24. European legislation (18) requires that all consignments of aquaculture products  
entering the Union from India are accompanied by the result of an analytical test for 
chloramphenicol, metabolites of nitrofurans , tetracycline, oxytetracycline  and 
chlortetracycline, carried out at the place of origin. 
25. To fulfill the above -mentioned requirements, the EIC  has instructions in place which 
specify that: 
- a composite sample is to be taken from each exported consignment that can contain 
products from a maximum of 4 daily production codes from the processing 
establishment. If the consignment includes products from more than 4 production 
codes, the n a second composite sample needs to be taken from the additional 
production codes; 
- composite samples of each exported consignment  must be representative and 
include finished product from each code and pond; 
- the samples must be analysed in an accredited EIA laboratory  using validated 
methods (see finding 55). Each result of the (composite) PET sample applies to the 
whole consignment, consisting of a maximum of 4 production codes.  
26. Between January 2020 and August 2022 there were 94 non -compliant PET test results 
reported. After a decrease in 2021 the percentage of non- compliant PETs increased in 
2022 to levels seen in 2020 (see chapter 4.3).  
27. In the three processing establishments visited by the audit team, PET tests were 
conducted by the EIA as required. In two cases, which were evaluated by the team and 
where prohibited substances had been found, the whole consignment had been 
destroyed and evidence from the rendering facility provided to the audit team.  
28. With regard to the low number of non -compliances for the PHT (7) compared to the 
considerably higher number in the PET (94) in the period from January 2020 to August 
2022, neither the EIC nor MPEDA had realised or could explain the reasons for the 
anomaly, albeit with different test types being  employed in each programme. If 
anything, the PHT ELISA should have a higher  false positive rate than the LC/MS/MS 
confirmatory methods  in the PET programme.  EIC  had not  analysed from where 
(establishments and states) the PET non-compliances had been found  most frequently 
to help them improve their understanding of the origin of non- compliant results in the 
PET.   
 
(18) Decision 2010/381/EU amended by Commission Implementing Decisions (EU) 2012/690 and (EU) 
2016/1774.