--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 9 to Page 11
Word Range: 2658 - 4073
Word Count: 1,416
--------------------

[Page 9]
8 
2. As regards residue monitoring in samples drawn from aquaculture farms and processing 
establishments several other competent authorities are involved: 
- MPEDA which is a statutory body under the same Ministry , implements the residue 
monitoring plan for aquaculture products under the guidance of the EIC. MPEDA’s 
regional and subregional division offices are responsible for s ampling at processing 
establishments, aquaculture farms, hatcheries and feed mills. 
Furthermore, MPEDA, i n line with national legal provisions  (5), has been appointed 
as one of the designated authorities for the enrolment of farms supplying aquaculture 
products for export, as well as of hatcheries and feed mills supplying feed to 
exporting aquaculture farms. MPEDA ´s tasks includ e ensuring that enrolment 
numbers for farms are unique and not in conflict with any numbering system of other 
recognised registration authorities (e.g. the CAA  and State Fishery Authorities 
(SFAs). 
- The CAA has the responsibility for aquaculture farms and hatcheries in salt and 
brackish waters in coastal areas (i.e. within two kilometers of the high tide lines of the 
coast and rivers). Other aquaculture farms (e.g. inland freshwater farms) fall under the 
responsibility of the individual SFAs. 
3. All aquaculture farms with a n enrolment  number provided by MPEDA can supply 
(farmed) finfish or shrimp to EIC -approved establishments  for export to the EU , 
provided that they request and pass successfully a Pre-Harvest Test (PHT) showing that 
the products to be harvested do not contain nitrofurans and chloramphenicol. 
5.1.2 Planning of residue monitoring 
Findings 
4. The EIC stated that the residue monitoring plans for aquaculture  finfish and 
crustaceans, milk and poultry  are based on the EU requirements  (
6) and the audit team 
could confirm that the residue monitoring plans largely follow these.  
5. The planning process for residue monitoring begins early enough to ensure sufficient 
time for the implementation of the sampling plan for aquaculture from January to  
December and for milk and poultry from April to March the following year. 
6. With regard to the 2021 residue monitoring plan, t he planned sample numbers per 
commodity fulfil the overall minimum requirements indicated in EU legislation (7). For 
 
from 1995; b) milk: S .O. 4031(E) dated 9th November, 2020 notifying Milk and Milk Products for q uality 
control and inspection prior to export plus S .O. 4032(E) dated 9th November, 2020 called as the Export of 
Milk and Milk Products (Quality Control, Inspection and Monitoring) Rules, 2020;  and c) poultry: Order 
No S.O. 1377(E) dated 30.12.2002 notify ing Fresh Poultry Meat and Poultry Meat Products for quality 
control and inspection prior to export plus Notification No S.O. 1378(E) dated 30.12.2002 called as the 
Export of Fresh Poultry Meat and Poultry Meat Products (Quality Control and Inspection and Monitoring) 
Rules, 2002 and amendments thereof. 
(5) O rder EIC/D(Q/C)/T-1/11-12. 
(6) Annexes II and IV to Directive 96/23/EC and the Annex to Commission Decision 97/747/EC. 
(7) Annex IV to Directive 96/23/EC, Article 1 and the Annex to Decision 97/747//EC.

[Page 10]
9 
aquaculture, they are based on the national production volume of all of the MPEDA-
enrolled farms; for milk , on the production capacity of sole EIC-authorised dairy 
processing establishment and its associated farms and for poultry , on the production 
capacity of four EIC-approved processing establishments, which receive birds  from 
those farms which aim to produce for the EU market . Sample numbers are distributed 
across the different states or regions according to the production volume of the 
commodity and the species concerned (see chapter 4.4). 
7. In line with what is expected in the EU  (8) all of the main aquaculture species 
(crustaceans and finfish) exported to the EU are c overed by the residue monitoring 
plan. The residue monitoring plan for milk covers bovine milk, and the one for poultry, 
broilers.   
8. During the elaboration of th e residue monitoring plans  two factors were taken into 
account, the production volume and the laboratories` analytical capacity. The audit 
team was not presented with evidence indicating whether other factors such as the 
availability or likelihood of use of particular veterinary medicinal product s, or 
previously non- compliant results for a given analyte , were taken into account in the 
planning process.  
9. The scope of testing for the residue monitoring plans for all three commodities includes 
all of the required substance groups and has been significantly expanded since the 2018 
audit. Notwithstanding the expansion in scope, some pharmacologically active 
substances which are authorised and used in practice for the treatment of animals  are 
not included in the plans. 
- The scope for a quaculture has been, as agreed bet ween the Commission and the EIC, 
widened since 2020 for a sub-set of 1% (459 samples) of all samples taken.  The sub -
set is analysed for an additional 1 8 substances in Group B1 (4 macrolides: 
erythromycin, tilmicosin, tylosin, spiramycin; 7 beta -lactams: amoxicillin, ampicillin, 
benzylpenicillin, dicloxacillin, oxcillin, cloxacillin, colistin; 2 aminoglycosides: 
spectinomycin, neomycin; 2 cephalosporins: cefalexin, cefapirin plus lincomycin, 
trimethoprim and doxycycline).   
- The audit team noted that methy ltestosterone (Group A3), which is used in India for 
sex-differentiation in some finfish species, has not yet been included  in the scope of 
testing for finfish. (9) 
 
- The scope for poultry has been widened both for Group B1 with regard to macrolides, 
lincosamines and aminoglycoside s and as well for Group B 2a for which 5 
anticoccidials (maduramicin, amprolium, salinomycin, monensin, nicarbazin and 
 
(8) Article 1 and Chapter 2 of the Annex to Commission Decision 97/747/EC. 
(9)  In its response to the draft report the competent authority noted  that methyl testosterone is used in the 
tilapia hatcheries for the production of all male tilapia.  It is not used in the grow out stages. There is no 
evidence of its usage in other fin / shell fish species in aquaculture.

[Page 11]
10 
robenidine) have been added.  T oltrazuril, which is authorise d in India for use in 
poultry, has not yet been added.  
- The scope for milk has been widened for Group B1 with regard to sulphonamides, 
beta-lactams and beta-lactam inhibitors such as taxobactam and sulbactam. It does not 
yet cover marbofloxacin and streptomycin, both of which were seen to be used on the 
dairy farms by the dairy plant`s  veterinarians met by the audit team. It also does not 
cover certain substances in Group B2a such as triclabendazol e and closantel which  
were seen to be used by the State Veterinary services during their annual anti-parasitic 
treatment campaigns at dairy farms.  The scope of  substances in Group B2e has been 
widened to include phenazone. 
Furthermore, the audit team identified substances that are contained in  veterinary 
medicinal products available on the Indian market, that are authorised use in food -
producing animals in India, but not in the EU and which are not included in the 
respective residue monitoring plans. These concerned in Group B1, ceftizoxime and 
ceftriaxone, both of which are authorised in India for  poultry and bovine  animals plus 
ofloxacin, perfloxacin and ornidazole (in Group A6) which are authorised in India for 
bovine animals.  
Notwithstanding the above, recommendation No 1  of the 2018 audit report has been 
largely addressed. 
10. In the 2021 and 2022 residue monitoring plans, the detection limits of the screening and 
confirmatory methods, as well as action levels for all  analyte/matrix combinations were 
the same as those applicable in the EU (10). 
Conclusions on planning of residue monitoring 
11. For aquaculture for which India has an approved residue monitoring plan and for  
poultry and milk, for which it is seeking residue monitoring plan approval, t he 
planning process is timely , sufficient sample numbers are pla nned, and the range of 
analytes included in the res pective plans is much greater than was the case in the 
previous audit. Nevertheless, there is room for improvement in terms of the scope of 
testing, as evidenced by the fact that several substances on the Indian market were  not 
included in the current resi due monitoring plans and these were seen to be used in the 
relevant species.  
5.1.3 Implementation of the residue monitoring plan 
Findings 
12. There are clear instructions (11) governing the implementation of the residue monitoring 
plans for aquaculture, milk and poultry. These are largely harmonised with the relevant 
 
(10) Table 1 of the Annex to Regulation (EU) 37/2010, Article 4 and Annex II to Decision 2002/657/EC or the 
levels recommended by the European Union Reference Laboratories. 
(11) India’s residue monitoring plans for: a) poultry meat and poultry meat products, b) milk and c) aquaculture 
products.