--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C52
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 31
Word Range: 14150 - 14399
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 31]
30 
market; they  shall only source feed, or if authorised, medicated feed, from EIC -
approved and registered feedmills. 
92. There is no  legislation in place for the labelling of premixes of medicated feeding 
stuffs, feed additives, medicated feed or feed. Thus, the producer is at liberty to decide 
what information is provided on labels of such products . The audit team saw at the 
visited pharmacies nutritional supplements for cattle which included no information on 
the ingredients.  The EIC informed the audit team that legislation to establish such a 
system is currently under preparation by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of 
India.  
 
Conclusions on authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products 
93. While there is a system in place for the authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary 
medicinal products it differs significantly from that in the EU and practices which are 
not foreseen in the EU are, consequently, permitted in India, such as “off-label use” of 
human medicinal products  in food -producing animal species.  Cumulatively these 
differences detract from whatever guarantees on the residues status of food are 
afforded by the various residue monitoring plans in place.   
5.2.2 Official controls on distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products 
Findings 
94. According to national legislation (79) the manufacturers and retail outlets for veterinary 
medicinal products should be inspected regularly which is similar to what is required in 
the EU (80). The minimum yearly inspection frequency at wholesalers and pharmacies 
visited by the audit team in three states was complied with by the respective SDLAs.  
95. Inspections of drug outlets covered the licensing, labelling (species logo, expiry dates,  
withdrawal periods), storage conditions, and presence of unauthorised s ubstances. The 
SDLA inspectors also took occasionally samples to check if the content of 
pharmacologically active substances in the medicinal products is in line with label 
indications, which is similar to the EU requirements (81). Inspections at pharmacies and 
wholesalers visited by the audit team were well documented using a template provided 
for in national legislation  (82) and the SDLA officers promptly informed a licensee in 
writing of any case of non- compliance identified, which is similar to the EU 
requirements (83).  
96. Due to an incomplete CDSCO or SDLA list of approved veterinary medicinal products 
(see finding 83), SDLA inspectors were not in a position to  verify if a veterinary 
medicinal product found at a wholesaler, pharmacy or on a farm was  indeed approved 
 
(79) Articles 50, 51 and 52 of Part V of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules 
(80) Points 1 and 2 of Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6. 
(81) Point 6 of Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6. 
(82) Form 35 of Schedule A of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules 
(83) Point 2 of Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6