--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 7
Word Range: 1974 - 2223
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 7]
6 
Regulation for meat products from poultry.  Thus, residue plan approval for poultry 
would not in itself, permit exports of either fresh or processed poultry meat to the EU.   
4.2 SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS COMMISSION AUDITS 
The most recent audit during which residue controls in India were evaluated was 
carried out in 2018 (audit reference DG (SANTE) 201 8-6345 MR-Final- hereafter: the 
2018 audit ( 2)). It concluded that the planning and implementation of residue 
monitoring for aquaculture products was largely in line with the legal requirements  and 
supported by a functioning laboratory network and extensive additional pre-harvest 
testing and pre-export testing programmes which focussed  on a limited range of  
substances. However, its effectiveness was weakened by a limited scope of analysis for 
certain pharmacologically active substances available on the market  and weak follow -
up of non-compliances that often did not identify their origin  and lacked the legal tools 
to sanction producers.  
The monitoring plans for milk and poultry were not deemed to provide guarantees 
equivalent to those foreseen in EU legislation with regard to the number of samples 
taken, the scope of testing (range of substances tested for) and laboratory performance .  
These issues militated against listing of either commodity in the Annex to Decision 
2011/163/EU.  
With regard to veterinary medicinal product s, it found that labelling had improved 
relative to previous audits.  In comparison to the EU, prescription requirements  were 
limited and there was a lack of requirements for the maintenance of treatment records 
on farms.  The availability of many substances not authorised for use in food-producing 
animals in the EU was also noted, a long-standing issue.   
There were four recommendations made, three of which were addressed satisfactorily 
by the competent authorities . The one recommendation regarding validation of 
laboratory methods was followed up during this audit. 
4.3 R
APID ALERT SYSTEM FOR FOOD AND FEED (RASFF) NOTIFICATIONS 
Commission Decisio n 2010/381/EU  (3), as last amended, requires that 50% of the 
aquaculture consignments of Indian origin arriving at EU borders are tested for residues 
of chloramphenicol, tetracycline, oxytetracycline, chlortetracycline  and metabolites of 
nitrofurans 3-amino-2-oxazolidinone (AOZ), semicarbazide (SEM), 1-aminohydrantoin 
(AHD) and 3-amino-5-morpholinomethyl-2-oxazolidone (AMOZ).  The same decision 
requires that all consignments are accompanied by a laboratory result from the place of 
origin ( hereafter, the pre -export testing - PET) for the same substances . The data for 
2020 to 2022 indicate (see below) that without the 100% PET obligation, the number of 
RASFFs in the EU would have been much higher.  
  
 
(2) https://ec.europa.eu/food/audits-analysis/audit_reports/details.cfm?rep_id=4055. 
(3) Commission Decision 2010/381/EU of 8 July 2010 on emergency measures applicable to consignments of 
aquaculture products imported from India and intended for human consumption (OJ L 174, 8.7.2010, p. 
51).