--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C36
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 22
Word Range: 9522 - 9920
Word Count: 399
--------------------

[Page 22]
21 
assessment status was verified by the audit  team and is reflected in each laboratory’ s 
scope of accreditation with the inclusion of the date of assessment and  the official seal 
of the EIC on each page of the respective document describing the scope. 
56. The laboratories visited were: 
Laboratory Area of testing covered during the visit 
EIA Mumbai milk – residue monitoring plan 
EIA Kochi  aquaculture – PET 
EIA Chennai poultry – residue monitoring plan 
aquaculture – PET 
MPEDA Kochi aquaculture – residue monitoring plan 
MPEDA Bhubaneswar aquaculture – residue monitoring plan 
aquaculture – PHT 
 
57. Similar to measures required in the EU  (38), in all of the laboratories visited there were 
procedures and instructions for sample reception and handling and these were adhered 
to. In the sample reception areas, sample seals, temperature, quantity and sample 
submission forms are checked, and details recorded with evidence seen of the recording 
of sample deviations and follow -up communications to flag rejected samples and 
request additional sampling. Additionally, residue monitoring samples were stored in 
appropriate and adequately monitored conditions. 
58. The EIA and MPEDA laboratories use electronic systems such as an in -house 
laboratory information management system used by the EIA and an electronic tool 
called “e -National Residue Control Plan”  used by MPEDA to log and track sample 
analysis in the laboratory. Furthermore, seals for samples drawn under the residue 
monitoring plans, the PET and the P HT have a unique ID number which is checked  
against the details recorded on the sample form at the time of reception and sample 
login at the laboratory. These measures are similar to what is required in the EU with 
regard to sample traceability (
39). 
59. The laboratories visited indicated that they operated an agreed sampl e analysis 
turnaround time of 10 days (EIA laboratories Mumbai, Kochi, Chennai), 15 or 20 days 
(MPEDA Bhubaneswar, MPEDA Kochi) from the receipt of the samples. The 
documents inspected by the audit team indicated that these analysis turnaround times 
were largely achieved and in the case of the EIA, Mumbai, this was an improvement 
relative to the 2018 report.  
60. The storage and management of reference standards was found to be adequate in all of 
the laboratories visited. Internal standards and matrix -matched c alibration were used 
routinely for the  Liquid Chromatography-(Tandem) Mass Spectrometry  (LC-MS/MS) 
methods evaluated. In the case of ELISA for PHT , the test kits used are supplied with 
 
(38) Points 1, 5 and 7 of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808.  
(39) Point 3 of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808.