--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 15 to Page 17
Word Range: 5543 - 6945
Word Count: 1,403
--------------------

[Page 15]
14 
5.1.4.3 Official monitoring in EIC -approved export establishments (EIA monitoring  
scheme) 
29. Establishments approved by the EIC for export are inspected by the EIA every one to 
three months depending on risk. Every six months samples are collected from all such 
establishments and are tested in an EIC -approved laboratory for the presence of  
antimicrobials including chloramphenicol, nitrofuran metabolites and tetracyclines. 
5.1.4.4 Establishment own-checks 
30. All three aquaculture processing establishments visited during the audit had, as part of 
their Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points  system, a critical control point related to 
residues in raw material inputs . One conducted in- house ELISA tests for nitrofurans 
and had never found any non-compliant results. The other two processers sent samples 
to an accredited private laboratory for analysis for a range of antimicrobials (covering 
those banned and authorised in the EU), pesticides and heavy metals. 
31. The dairy processing establishment visited had two own-check programmes in place for 
residues. In the first, each batch of raw milk received at the establishment is tested with 
a commercially available dipstick screening test for an timicrobials which covered 
certain penicillins, cephalosporins, tetracyclines and sulphonamides  with national 
maximum residue limits (MRLs ) in line with those applicable in the EU  (19).  Six 
antimicrobials (including two cephalosporins ceftriaxon e and cefuroxime ), two 
aminoglycosides ( gentamycin and streptomycin) and two fluoroquinolones  
(enrofloxacin and marbofloxacin), all of which are on the list of a ntimicrobials for 
dispensation to dairy cows by the veterinarians of the same dairy processing 
establishment/cooperative, are not covered by the dipstick screening test .  Neither 
ceftriaxone nor cefuroxime have a Maximum Residue Limit ( MRL) established in the 
EU. The audit team was informed that the dipstick test had never been verified (i.e. 
shown to work) by the laboratory staff in  the dairy processing establishment  and they 
did not have access to ‘positive control’ samples or analytical st andards. No non-
compliances had been found from January 2020 to August 2022.  In the second own -
check programme, one sample was taken every two months from one of the 1,200 
collection centres belonging to the dairy processing establishment  to be analysed f or 
aflatoxin M1. Staff from the dairy cooperative informed the audit team, that to date 
(and in marked contrast to the results found in the national residues plan – see finding 
48), no non-compliances had been found for this contaminant.  
32. The two poultry processors visited also operated self -monitoring p rogrammes for 
residues and sent their samples to an ISO 17025- accredited EIA laboratory. The scope 
of substances largely mirrored that of the poultry residue monitoring plan . To date no 
non-compliances have  been found but  there are  instructions to notify the EIA in the 
event of any non-compliances.  
 
(19) Regulation (EU) No 37/2010

[Page 16]
15 
Conclusions on other residue monitoring programmes 
33. The PHT and PET schemes for aquaculture are implemented as planned by the 
competent authorities  and they are useful in helping identify non- compliant batches 
and preventing their certification by the EIC and consequent export to the EU.  
Nevertheless, the difference in the non- compliance rates between the PHT and PET 
programmes is hard to explain and has not been investigated by the competent 
authorities.  The additional testing of the products under establishments’ own-control 
programmes has the potential to provide further assurances on the compliance of the 
commodities in question.   
 
5.1.5 Follow-up of non-compliant results 
Findings 
5.1.5.1 Aquaculture 
34. The EIC is responsible for coordinating the follow -up investigations  of RASFF  
notifications. It calls on the concerned EIA to create an assessment panel comprising of 
experts from the EIA, MPED A and the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology. The 
role of the panel is to carry out documentary and on-the-spot verification at the relevant 
processing establishments and farms.  
35. The relevant EIA is responsible for coordinating the follow-up of non-compliant results 
found in the respective residue monitoring plans . After transmitting the alert 
notification along with the test results through an elect ronic system, a panel is created 
consisting of the EIA, MPEDA and the concerned  CAA to jointly carry out 
documentary and on-the-spot verification in the processing establishments and farms, to 
take follow-up samples and to identify the origin  of the contamination. A joint report is 
created and the EIAs are to take measures as required with regard to the processing 
establishments or farms concerned; the CAA does likewise for the hatcheries that fall 
under its jurisdiction.  
36. The EIAs are also responsible for follow -up investigation s of PET non-compliant 
results.  There is no legal requirement for the non- compliant ELISA results in the 
MPEDA PHT programme to be followed up (20).  
37. The residue monitoring plan contains documented procedures for the management of 
non-compliant results  found in the residue monitoring plan and procedures are also 
described in the EIC executive instruction for aquaculture species  (21). T hese 
procedures largely address key elements of follow -up of non- compliant results as 
 
(20) In its response to the draft report the c ompetent authority noted that MPEDA on its own, has investigated 
all seven PHT positive cases to trace the root cause. 
(21) Chapter 13 in the “National residue control plan for aquaculture products”  and chapter 10.2 of the 
“Executive instructions for approval and monitoring of fish and fishery products for export”.

[Page 17]
16 
expected in the EU  (22) and include measures such as an increase in the frequency of 
inspections, compulsory residue tests of subsequent consignments, temporary 
suspension, fines and revocation of the approval in the event of second time violations. 
38. Based on information available on the EU RASFF portal and provided by the 
competent authority during the audit, the audit team reviewed  11 cases that occurred 
from 2019 to 2021. The se concerned the RASFF notifications for nitrofurans ( 8 cases), 
chloramphenicol ( 2 cases) and dyes (1 case). In all cases follow -up investigations 
commenced promptly and involved both the processing establishment as well as the 
farms concerned .  In nine  cases a lack of product traceability was mentioned in the 
report as the potential reason for the non- compliance and it was speculated that 
contaminated product s of unknow n origin might have caused the non -compliance. In 
three cases it was mentioned in the report that farmers had sold to middlemen who 
might have mixed raw material from other farms , in the product that was then sent to 
the processing establishment.   
39. Measures taken in the event  of a RASFF notification, included in most cases the 
temporary suspension of the processing establishments, increase in the frequency of 
official controls and the establishments being officially instructed to be more vigilant 
during their procurement of raw materials. In three cases, letters were sent to: MPEDA 
requesting it to revoke the  registration of the  farm involved ; the Commission of 
Fisheries of the state  and the CAA, requesting them to take actions and to the Seafood 
Exporters Association requesting it to inform its members not to purchase raw materials 
from the farm concerned. 
40. With regards to r esidue monitoring plan results, the non-compliance rate for Group A6 
substances (chloramphenicol and nitrofurans) varied by year and by sampling site type. 
For samples drawn from aquaculture farms and processing establishments  these were, 
by year:  2018: 7 cases – 0.37%; 2019: 18 cases  - 0.81%, 2020: 6 cases – 0,29% and 
2021: 23 cases – 0.9%.  Regarding samples drawn from aquaculture hatcheries : 2018: 
70 cases – 38%, 2019: 32 cases – 18%, 2020: 44 cases – 20% and 2021: 52 cases –  
20%).  Also, 2021 was the first year in which all 259 hatcheries were sampled for the 
presence of substances in Group A6.  With regard to samples of aquaculture feed  
analysed for chloramphenicol and nitrofurans between 2018 to 2021, there were no 
non-compliant results in the 13 to 19 samples taken each year.   
41. The above data demonstrate that, notwithstanding the ban on use of chloramphenicol 
and nitrofurans  in Indian aquaculture  (
23) illegal use, particularly at hatchery level 
remains a sizable problem.  In contrast, there were no non- compliant results for other 
antimicrobial substances in Group B1 from samples taken between 2018 and 2021 with 
around 2,500 samples being analysed each year (for a limited scope of substances) and 
since 2019 approximately 459 samples (1% of all samples) being analysed for an 
extended scope of substances.  
 
(22) Regulation (EU) 2019/2090. 
(23) Order S.O. 722 (E) of 10/07/2002.