--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 21 to Page 23
Word Range: 8362 - 9715
Word Count: 1,354
--------------------

[Page 21]
20 
Conclusions on follow-up of non-compliant results 
52. Documented procedures for the follow-up of non-compliances found under the residue 
monitoring plans are largely equivalent to those foreseen in the EU and investigations 
are mostly implemented promptly.  Nevertheless, the follow-up of the aquaculture non-
compliances for banned  substances and actions taken to prevent recurrence have not 
been effective as evidenced by the continuing high rate of non- compliant results in 
samples drawn from hatcheries and in the PET programme.   Similarly, the continuing 
high incidence of aflatoxin M1 findings in raw milk  suggest that measures to address 
and mitigate this problem are not particularly effective.   
5.1.6 Laboratories 
Findings 
53. The laboratory network relevant for the scope of the audit consisted of: 
a) laboratories involved in testing samples under the residue monitoring plans for: 
- aquaculture: 5 MPEDA laboratories (in Kochi, Bhimavaram, Nellore , Porbandar 
and Bhubaneswar and one EIA laboratory in Chennai (dioxins only); 
- milk: the EIA Pilot Test House laboratory in Mumbai; 
- poultry - the EIA laboratory in Chennai. 
b)     laboratories responsible for analysis under the PET programme for aquaculture 
products with regard to tetracycline, oxytetracycline, chlortetracycline  
chloramphenicol and nitrofuran metabolites: three EIA laboratories (in Chennai, 
Kochi, Mumbai and Kolkata); 
c)  laboratories responsible for screening analys es under the PHT programme for 
shrimp for chloramphenicol and nitrofuran metabolites : 15 MPEDA ELISA 
laboratories. 
54. Similar to what is expected in the EU  (35) all laboratories involved in testing residue 
monitoring samples and the PET programme are ISO/IEC 17025 accredited by the 
National Accreditation Board for Calibration and Testing Laboratories (NABL) which 
is a full member of International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation. All EIA and 
MPEDA laboratories have a number of residue methods included in their respective 
scopes of accreditation. Of the 1 5 MPEDA ELISA laboratories involved in the PHT, 4 
are accredited, each with residues methods listed in their scope of accreditation. 
55. Similar to the EU requirements (36) and as described in the 2018 audit, all laboratories 
involved in official residues controls testing must hold an approval from the EIC. 
Under the EIC approval process, ISO 17025 accreditation audits are conducted as an 
integrated assessment by the NABL and the EIC in parallel, as des cribed in the NABL 
document 127 ( 37). For the laboratories visited during the audit, EIA Chennai, EIA 
Kochi, EIA Mumbai, MPEDA Kochi and MPEDA Bhubaneswar, the integrated 
 
(35) Article 37(4)(e) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625.  
(36) Article 39(1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625.   
(37) https://nabl-india.org/nabl/file_download.php?filename=202011170504-NABL-127-doc.pdf

[Page 22]
21 
assessment status was verified by the audit  team and is reflected in each laboratory’ s 
scope of accreditation with the inclusion of the date of assessment and  the official seal 
of the EIC on each page of the respective document describing the scope. 
56. The laboratories visited were: 
Laboratory Area of testing covered during the visit 
EIA Mumbai milk – residue monitoring plan 
EIA Kochi  aquaculture – PET 
EIA Chennai poultry – residue monitoring plan 
aquaculture – PET 
MPEDA Kochi aquaculture – residue monitoring plan 
MPEDA Bhubaneswar aquaculture – residue monitoring plan 
aquaculture – PHT 
 
57. Similar to measures required in the EU  (38), in all of the laboratories visited there were 
procedures and instructions for sample reception and handling and these were adhered 
to. In the sample reception areas, sample seals, temperature, quantity and sample 
submission forms are checked, and details recorded with evidence seen of the recording 
of sample deviations and follow -up communications to flag rejected samples and 
request additional sampling. Additionally, residue monitoring samples were stored in 
appropriate and adequately monitored conditions. 
58. The EIA and MPEDA laboratories use electronic systems such as an in -house 
laboratory information management system used by the EIA and an electronic tool 
called “e -National Residue Control Plan”  used by MPEDA to log and track sample 
analysis in the laboratory. Furthermore, seals for samples drawn under the residue 
monitoring plans, the PET and the P HT have a unique ID number which is checked  
against the details recorded on the sample form at the time of reception and sample 
login at the laboratory. These measures are similar to what is required in the EU with 
regard to sample traceability (
39). 
59. The laboratories visited indicated that they operated an agreed sampl e analysis 
turnaround time of 10 days (EIA laboratories Mumbai, Kochi, Chennai), 15 or 20 days 
(MPEDA Bhubaneswar, MPEDA Kochi) from the receipt of the samples. The 
documents inspected by the audit team indicated that these analysis turnaround times 
were largely achieved and in the case of the EIA, Mumbai, this was an improvement 
relative to the 2018 report.  
60. The storage and management of reference standards was found to be adequate in all of 
the laboratories visited. Internal standards and matrix -matched c alibration were used 
routinely for the  Liquid Chromatography-(Tandem) Mass Spectrometry  (LC-MS/MS) 
methods evaluated. In the case of ELISA for PHT , the test kits used are supplied with 
 
(38) Points 1, 5 and 7 of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808.  
(39) Point 3 of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808.

[Page 23]
22 
reference standards. A t the time of the audit, all of the MPEDA ELISA l aboratories 
were using test kits from the same manufacturer. 
61. All of the laboratories visited had quality control procedures in place; these included 
the use of blank samples, reagent blanks, non- compliant controls spiked at appropriate 
concentrations in matrix, blind control check samples and duplicate samples. The audit 
team examined the m ethod quality control charts in each laboratory and these were 
generally found to be adequate for monitoring longer term trends in method 
performance.  In the case of the EIA laboratory in Chennai however, it was found that 
while the laboratory had quality control charts in place with data recorded over the past 
2 years in the examples seen, trends in the control data were not evaluated routinely. 
The only prescribed control criteria considered by the laboratory were breaches of the 
calculated chart control limits or recovery levels outside the range of 80 to 120%. 
Trending patterns of data points were not considered by the laboratory; for example, a 
certain number of data points above or below the mean or a certain number of data 
points showing a continuous increase/decrease in recovery. This is not fully in line with 
ISO 17025 (
40) standard or EU requirements (41). 
62. Evidence was provided that all of the laboratories involved in testing under the residues 
monitoring plan had participated in proficiency testing. This is in line with expectations 
in the EU (42).  With regard to the laboratories visited, the EIA Chennai laboratory had 
participated in one proficiency test for poultry since 2018 (lasalocid ( Group B2b)) and 
the EIA Mumbai laboratory has participated in three proficiency tests for milk since 
2019 (chloramphenicol (Group A6), sulphonamide s (Group B1) and heavy metals 
(Group B3c)). The visited l aboratories had recently participated in the following 
relevant proficiency with satisfactory results: 
- EIA Mumbai: heavy metals (Group B3c) in milk powder;  
- EIA Chennai: lasalocid ( Group B2b) in poultry; nitrofurans ( Group A6), quinolones 
(Group B1) and sulphonamides (Group B1) in shrimp; nitrofurans (Group A6), dyes 
(Group B3e) and heavy metal (Group B3c) in fish; 
- EIA Kochi: quinolones ( Group B1), chloramphenicol ( Group A6), nitrofurans 
(Group A6), tetracyclines (Group B1) in shrimp; nitrofurans (Group A6) in fish;    
- MPEDA Kochi: tetracyclines ( Group B1), nitrofurans ( Group A6) in shrimp; 
mycotoxins (Group B3d) in fish; 
- MPEDA Bhubaneswar: tetracyclines (Group B1), nitrofurans (Group A6) in shrimp; 
nitrofurans (Group A6) sulphonamides (Group B1), dyes (Group B3e) in fish. 
63. In those instances where the results of proficiency tests  would be unsatisfactory, all of 
the laboratories visited had a root cause analysis procedure  in place to identify the 
cause and implement appropriate corrective actions.   
64. For testing under the residue monitoring plan, only chemical confirmatory methods are 
used, and all of the analytical methods reviewed by the audit team had decision limits 
 
(40) Chapter 7.7 of ISO/IEC 17025.  
(41) Chapter 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/808.   
(42) Article 38(2) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2021/808.