--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C23
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 6009 - 6258
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 15]
14 
5.1.4.3 Official monitoring in EIC -approved export establishments (EIA monitoring  
scheme) 
29. Establishments approved by the EIC for export are inspected by the EIA every one to 
three months depending on risk. Every six months samples are collected from all such 
establishments and are tested in an EIC -approved laboratory for the presence of  
antimicrobials including chloramphenicol, nitrofuran metabolites and tetracyclines. 
5.1.4.4 Establishment own-checks 
30. All three aquaculture processing establishments visited during the audit had, as part of 
their Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points  system, a critical control point related to 
residues in raw material inputs . One conducted in- house ELISA tests for nitrofurans 
and had never found any non-compliant results. The other two processers sent samples 
to an accredited private laboratory for analysis for a range of antimicrobials (covering 
those banned and authorised in the EU), pesticides and heavy metals. 
31. The dairy processing establishment visited had two own-check programmes in place for 
residues. In the first, each batch of raw milk received at the establishment is tested with 
a commercially available dipstick screening test for an timicrobials which covered 
certain penicillins, cephalosporins, tetracyclines and sulphonamides  with national 
maximum residue limits (MRLs ) in line with those applicable in the EU  (19).  Six 
antimicrobials (including two cephalosporins ceftriaxon e and cefuroxime ), two 
aminoglycosides ( gentamycin and streptomycin) and two fluoroquinolones  
(enrofloxacin and marbofloxacin), all of which are on the list of a ntimicrobials for 
dispensation to dairy cows by the veterinarians of the same dairy processing 
establishment/cooperative, are not covered by the dipstick screening test .  Neither 
ceftriaxone nor cefuroxime have a Maximum Residue Limit ( MRL) established in the 
EU. The audit team was informed that the dipstick test had never been verified (i.e. 
shown to work) by the laboratory staff in  the dairy processing establishment  and they 
did not have access to ‘positive control’ samples or analytical st andards. No non-
compliances had been found from January 2020 to August 2022.  In the second own -
check programme, one sample was taken every two months from one of the 1,200 
collection centres belonging to the dairy processing establishment  to be analysed f or 
aflatoxin M1. Staff from the dairy cooperative informed the audit team, that to date 
(and in marked contrast to the results found in the national residues plan – see finding 
48), no non-compliances had been found for this contaminant.  
32. The two poultry processors visited also operated self -monitoring p rogrammes for 
residues and sent their samples to an ISO 17025- accredited EIA laboratory. The scope 
of substances largely mirrored that of the poultry residue monitoring plan . To date no 
non-compliances have  been found but  there are  instructions to notify the EIA in the 
event of any non-compliances.  
 
(19) Regulation (EU) No 37/2010