--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C19
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 5008 - 5257
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 13]
12 
dispatch within 30 hours . The plans for milk and poultry specify  that samples have to 
be delivered to the designated EIA laboratory within 48 hours of being taken. 
Conclusions on the implementation of the residue monitoring plan 
18. The residue monitoring plans for aquaculture animals , poultry and milk are  
implemented in a timely manner and in line with planned arrangements.  Nevertheless, 
the sampling and reporting policy adopted for milk could impair the ability of the 
competent authority to identify non-compliant samples.  
5.1.4 Other residues monitoring programmes 
5.1.4.1 PHT for aquaculture 
19. National legislation (17) requires that export establishments approved for export to the 
EU can source aquaculture products only from  enrolled farms (see finding 3)  that 
participate in the official PHT programme . This programme requires that all 
aquaculture batches harvested  at farm are sampled and tested prior to harvest for the 
presence of chloramphenicol and four nitrofuran metabolites . Non-registered farms 
will, following a successful inspection, then be registered and subsequently will be able 
to participate in the PHT programme. 
20. There is a process to ensure traceability of the PHT result to the specific farm and pond. 
Every pond is enrolled and identified with its  Global Positioning System  co-ordinates 
that define its exact surface area and location. Each pond is sampled  by MPEDA staff  
and harvested separately and no aggregate sampl es are allowed. Furthermore, sampling 
forms have to include all of the required information to ensure traceability to the pond.  
However, on two farms visited in Odisha , the audit team found inconsistencies in the 
traceability records concerning stocking and harvesting data and the number of ponds 
compared to the data in the MPEDA database. In relation to the size of the sample, 
officials calculate the estimated size of the batch in the pond based on the size of the 
pond, the stocking density and the average size of the shrimp.  
21. All samples are then sent to an MPEDA -run network of 15 laboratories performing 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA).  The cost of the ELISA tests is paid for 
by the farmer; MPEDA pays for the cost of any confirmatory tests required. Once the 
testing is done, the result reports have a validity of 20 days. If the pond is not harvested  
in that timeframe , sampling and testing needs  to be repeated. When the pond is 
harvested, the system imposes a 3-month period until the next PHT sampling. 
22. The three processing plants visited by the audit team had put in place mechanisms to 
minimise the risk of non -PHT tested product to be included in the batch, such as the 
crosschecking of amounts received with the production es timated for the pond. All the 
examples reviewed by the team during the audit of consignments of aquaculture 
 
(17) S.O. 497(E) of 10 March 2011.