--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C29
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 18
Word Range: 7546 - 7795
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 18]
17 
42. The audit team reviewed  9 examples of follow -up investigations after the detection of 
residues of EU -banned substances (Group A6) . I nvestigations both at the processing 
establishments and farms concerned took  place immediately (with a few COVID-
related exceptions ), and the products or animals were detained, similar to what is 
required in the EU  (24).  Said investigations included a review of the documentation in 
the processing establishments such as production traceability records, reports of PHT  
and PET, reports of in -house pre -purchase testing  etc. and follow -up sampling.  On 
farms there was a review of the production cycle  logbooks for each pond, the sourcing 
of larvae, feedingstuffs, disinfectants and other inputs , and f ollow-up samples  from 
relevant ponds. These actions are similar to what is required in the EU (25). 
43. Notwithstanding the actions that were taken, the  source of the non- compliance was not 
identified in any of the 9 cases.  The official reports concluded  that the contamination 
came from unknown/unidentified inputs. In one case, where a follow-up sample  had 
been taken from feed, which was  non-compliant for chloramphenicol, no further action 
had been taken to trace the affected feed back to the distributor or producer of the feed. 
In a second case the official report highlighted that feed was suspected as a potential  
source, but this hypothesis was not backed up by any sampling of the feed.  
44. Dissuasive measures taken by the EIC and EIA at processing establishments in which 
non-compliant results had been detected under the residues monitoring plan, consisted 
of the destruction of the affected product, in some cases the temporary suspension of 
the processing establishment, obligatory testing of five subsequent product ion batches 
intended for export to the EU  and enhanced monitoring visits  as per  national 
requirements (26).  At farm level, MPEDA informed the audit team, that no farm during 
the last three years, from which non- compliant product had originated, had been 
penalised in any way or had had their MPEDA enrolment suspended or withdrawn .  
The latter is different to the EU requirements ( 27). At hatchery level, the audit team was 
informed that in 2021/2022 the registration of 6 crustacean hatcheries, which had repeat 
non-compliances for banned antimicrobials, had been temporarily suspended.  
45. According to EIC and MPEDA , the imposition of penalties on aquaculture farms, such 
as fines being levied or temporary or permanent closure, fall under the responsibility of 
the States` fishery and coastal aquaculture authorities.  In the past, several states lacked 
a legal basis to take such measures though the audit team was provided with evidence 
that two states (Kerala and Andhra -Pradesh) now had such legislation  (
28) in place 
which allowed for the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. Furthermore, in 
2022, the main aquaculture -producing states had created district and task force  
committees, mandated to implemented stringent measures to curtail the use of banned 
 
(24)  Point 2 of Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2090. 
(25) Point 4 of Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2090. 
(26) Chapter 10.2.2 and 16.1.4. of the “Executive instructions for approval and monitoring of fish and fishery 
products for export. 
(27) Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2090. 
(28) Kerala Fish Seed Act 2014, Kerala Inland Fisheries Aquaculture Act 2010 and Andhra Pradesh State 
Aquaculture Development Authority Act 2020.