--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C17
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 20 to Page 21
Word Range: 4627 - 4924
Word Count: 298
--------------------

[Page 20]
20 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
2. Survey Framework and Data 
Collection Process
The objective of the survey was to examine the impact 
of digitalisation, specifically e-commerce platforms, 
on the growth and development of MSMEs. A total 
of 2,365 Udyam-registered manufacturing-sector 
MSMEs were surveyed for this study. Purposive 
sampling was followed to include an equal number 
of firms integrated on e-commerce platforms and 
those that are not. A pilot survey was conducted in 
the National Capital Region in July 2024, and the 
field survey was conducted between September and 
November 2024. 
A cluster-based approach was adopted to identify 
MSMEs within the selected sectors. The study covered 
seven sectors: ready-to-wear garments; furniture; 
processed and preserved food; toys; sports goods; 
handicraft products; and consumer electronics (Figure 
1). An equal number of respondents were selected from 
each product category to ensure that sectoral biases do 
not impede the findings.
 
Figure 1: Distribution of enterprises by sectors (in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process
14% 15%
15%
14%
14%
14%
14%
Wearing Apparel Consumer Electronics 
Sports Goods Furniture
Handicraft ItemsTo y s
Processed and Preserved Food
The selection of states and cities was as per the 
previous survey, which was based on a natural fallout 
of majority clusters in selected product categories 
(Figure 2). Twelve Indian states and 24 cities/centres 
were covered in the survey.

[Page 21]
21 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Figure 2: Geographical distribution of MSMEs surveyed
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey 
Although a purposive sampling methodology was used, 
the sample reflects key characteristics of India’s MSME 
landscape. Notably, while only Udyam-registered 
enterprises were selected for the survey, the Annual 
Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) 
shares similarities with the sample, particularly in 
MSME concentration in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, 
and Maharashtra. Furthermore, key manufacturing-
sector products with a significant MSME presence sold 
online, including apparel, food products, furniture and 
handicraft, were selected for this study. 31
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process