--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C46
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 46
Word Range: 13099 - 13348
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 46]
46 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
While there is no dearth of MSME-focused government 
schemes that aim to address the conventional issues 
faced by MSMEs, they are not sufficiently utilised. A 
significant share of respondents (approximately 55%) 
reported that they have not accessed these programmes 
in the past three years. A higher proportion of small- 
and medium-sized enterprises have not accessed these 
benefits (55% and 60% respectively; and 54% of micro 
firms). Among the schemes, the MUDRA loan scheme 
is the most widely used, followed by the Micro & Small 
Enterprises Cluster Development Programme. Figure 
27 highlights the primary reasons for low uptake, 
including complex application procedures (64%) and a 
lack of awareness (57%). Additionally, many MSMEs are 
unable to qualify due to strict eligibility criteria.
Figure 27:
Distribution of overall enterprises 
by the reason of not availing any 
schemes/benefits (in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
The primary challenges faced by integrated and non-
integrated firms are notably distinct, necessitating a 
Challenges and the Way Forward
two-pronged approach to policy intervention.  Around 
42% of the surveyed MSMEs emphasised the need for 
government initiatives to improve access to technology, 
with a higher proportion (47%) among medium-sized 
enterprises. Additionally, about 40% of respondents 
recommended strengthening cybersecurity measures, 
while approximately 39% suggested implementing 
skill development and training programmes to ensure 
MSMEs use digital platforms adequately. 
Although e-commerce platforms help MSMEs address 
some traditional challenges, many issues remain 
unaddressed, necessitating the private sector’s 
intervention. Nearly 48% of the surveyed MSMEs and 
around half of the micro-enterprises recommend that 
e-commerce companies resolve the errors and delays 
on their platforms more effectively. These issues include 
sudden account de-listing and delays in logistics and 
payments, among others. The second most common 
suggestion is to implement stronger measures to 
prevent fraud, a concern shared by sellers—especially 
micro firms—just as much as consumers. 
Going forward, it is crucial to support firms’ digital 
transformation by enhancing access to technology 
and upgrading skills and digital literacy of enterprises. 
ICRIER’s survey reveals that e-commerce integration 
not only supports enterprise development directly 
through its impact on business growth and hiring, but 
also through key second-order effects. It is, therefore, 
important to establish an ecosystem that enables firms 
to maximise the second-order benefits of e-commerce 
integration. This can be achieved by developing 
supportive physical and digital infrastructure that 
harness the advantages of e-commerce integration.
57%
64%
18%
12%
33%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%
Not aware of the
scheme/beneﬁts
Complicated
procedure
Inadequate
documentation
Lack of technological
know-how
Strict eligibility
criteria