--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 19 to Page 23
Word Range: 4167 - 5428
Word Count: 1,262
--------------------

[Page 19]
19 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Introduction
to assess the impact of digitalisation on their business 
prospects, access to finance, and export potential. The 
survey explored how digital interventions, particularly 
participation in e-commerce platforms, influence 
enterprise development. This report presents the 
insights derived from the survey data.
The rest of the report is organised as follows.  Section 
2 introduces the survey by describing the sample 
framework and data collection process. Section 3 
presents the characteristics of the sample, such as 
age, ownership and turnover of the enterprise. Section 
4 discusses the typical journey of the enterprise, 
focusing on integrated firms. It presents how business 
and growth prospects emerged after firms integrated 
on e-commerce platforms. Section 5 discusses MSMEs’ 
experience accessing formal finance and compares the 
experiences of integrated and non-integrated firms. 
Section 6 presents the findings on international market 
access, particularly the export orientation of MSMEs 
and contrasts between integrated and non-integrated 
enterprises. Section 7 highlights the challenges and 
recommends a way forward.

[Page 20]
20 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
2. Survey Framework and Data 
Collection Process
The objective of the survey was to examine the impact 
of digitalisation, specifically e-commerce platforms, 
on the growth and development of MSMEs. A total 
of 2,365 Udyam-registered manufacturing-sector 
MSMEs were surveyed for this study. Purposive 
sampling was followed to include an equal number 
of firms integrated on e-commerce platforms and 
those that are not. A pilot survey was conducted in 
the National Capital Region in July 2024, and the 
field survey was conducted between September and 
November 2024. 
A cluster-based approach was adopted to identify 
MSMEs within the selected sectors. The study covered 
seven sectors: ready-to-wear garments; furniture; 
processed and preserved food; toys; sports goods; 
handicraft products; and consumer electronics (Figure 
1). An equal number of respondents were selected from 
each product category to ensure that sectoral biases do 
not impede the findings.
 
Figure 1: Distribution of enterprises by sectors (in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process
14% 15%
15%
14%
14%
14%
14%
Wearing Apparel Consumer Electronics 
Sports Goods Furniture
Handicraft ItemsTo y s
Processed and Preserved Food
The selection of states and cities was as per the 
previous survey, which was based on a natural fallout 
of majority clusters in selected product categories 
(Figure 2). Twelve Indian states and 24 cities/centres 
were covered in the survey.

[Page 21]
21 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Figure 2: Geographical distribution of MSMEs surveyed
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey 
Although a purposive sampling methodology was used, 
the sample reflects key characteristics of India’s MSME 
landscape. Notably, while only Udyam-registered 
enterprises were selected for the survey, the Annual 
Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) 
shares similarities with the sample, particularly in 
MSME concentration in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, 
and Maharashtra. Furthermore, key manufacturing-
sector products with a significant MSME presence sold 
online, including apparel, food products, furniture and 
handicraft, were selected for this study. 31
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process

[Page 22]
22 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Handicraft manufacturing unit in Srinagar, Jammu 
and Kashmir
Instead of concentrating on unincorporated-sector 
enterprises, which have unique characteristics, certain 
inherent biases, and limited comparability, this study 
focused on Udyam-registered firms as they offer a more 
consistent basis for comparing firms. Approximately 
98% of Udyam-registered firms are micro-sized, 2% are 
small, and around 1% are medium. While the overall 
pattern is similar in the study’s sample, small and 
medium-size firms are adequately represented. 
Based on prior experience, secondary research, and 
exhaustive local information, multiple industrial belts/
clusters were identified in each city using purposive 
sampling. Once the cluster was identified, a known 
landmark was selected as the ‘starting point’ for 
applying the right-hand rule method to identify MSMEs 
within a selected cluster. The investigator then began 
visiting the MSMEs located on the right side of the 
starting point to ensure no MSMEs are left from within 
the identified sectors in the selected clusters.
Screener questions were used to determine the 
eligibility of the targeted respondents. Only the eligible 
respondents were surveyed. Structured questionnaires 
were used to conduct interviews. The questionnaire 
was translated into the language most commonly 
spoken in the respondent’s state. Language experts 
carefully assessed the translations to ensure the 
questions retained their original meanings. Show cards 
and a ‘definition sheet’ were shown to respondents, 
wherever required, along with the questionnaire.
To make appointments with respondents, interviewers 
sent emails, made telephonic calls, or physically visited 
their premises. Based on the respondents’ approval, 
interviewers either sought an immediate interview or 
an appointment to capture their responses later. Only 
the owner or key decision-maker of the MSME was 
interviewed. All surveys were conducted face-to-face 
and lasted about 30 minutes each. A computer-assisted 
personal interviewing device was used to record the 
responses. All responses were geo-tagged.
The survey questionnaire was divided into five sections: 
The first section was designed to capture the 
enterprise’s innate characteristics, including its 
ownership structure, the education level, age, and 
gender of the owner, and age of the enterprise. A firm’s 
inherent characteristics are crucial to adopting digital 
technologies.32 Moreover, this information is useful in 
creating a profile for the enterprise and cross-tabulating 
data on the firms’ characteristics to examine trends by 
firm size, ownership, age, and other factors. 
The second section documented firm performance, 
emphasising business growth, investments and 
innovation. It included questions on the performance 
of the enterprises over time in general, and post-
integration. All these aspects contribute to enterprise 
development and its potential to scale up. Data from 
the past three years is presented in the report to track 
the firm’s progress across key indicators over time. 
Additionally, this section delved into the motivations 
for adopting e-commerce, as well as the reasons for 
not doing so. 
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process

[Page 23]
23 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Section three of the questionnaire focused on the firms’ 
access to finance. It is well-acknowledged that MSMEs 
face challenges in accessing formal finance, adversely 
impacting their potential to scale up and grow. Firms 
were asked about their sources of finance, interest 
rate paid, the issue of collateral, and, more generally, 
challenges faced in accessing formal finance.
Section four examined the firm’s export orientation and 
potential to access international markets. The previous 
survey found that the more productive firms integrate 
with global trade as they are more competitive. This 
year’s survey dwelled deeper into firm’s potential to 
export, the challenges faced, and whether e-commerce 
platforms enable greater trade integration.
The fifth section of the questionnaire focused on 
key policy considerations. It examined the challenges 
encountered by both integrated and non-integrated 
MSMEs, explored the support and assistance they 
receive or utilise, and gathered their suggestions for 
improvement.
Although the primary survey was conducted in person, 
and the large sample size means the findings are 
largely conclusive, certain limitations remain. First, 
the responses are based on the self-declaration of 
respondents and without verification through books 
of accounts or other published data. Second, as a 
purposive sampling technique was used, the findings 
cannot be generalised beyond a specific homogeneous 
group. Third, as previously mentioned, the survey 
focused solely on Udyam-registered firms, meaning 
it does not account for the informal sector, where a 
significant portion of MSMEs operate. However, the 
survey offers valuable insights, providing a direction for 
the outcome and contributing to a more comprehensive 
understanding of the subject.
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process