--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C42
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 42
Word Range: 11677 - 12063
Word Count: 387
--------------------

[Page 42]
42 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Using Digital Public Infrastructure to Improve  
MSMEs’ Access to Finance: The Case of  
Account Aggregator Framework
The Account Aggregator (AA) is a data-driven digital public infrastructure that enables secure, 
consent-based data sharing between financial institutions. This infrastructure is particularly 
impactful for MSMEs, a segment traditionally constrained by limited access to formal credit due 
to inadequate financial documentation and collateral-based lending norms. To address these 
challenges, the AA framework establishes cash-flow-based lending as a viable alternative for 
MSME lending. Lenders can assess creditworthiness based on actual business cash flows rather 
than asset-backed guarantees by leveraging real-time transactional data from bank accounts, 
Goods and Services Tax Network footprints, and other financial records. Additionally, lenders can 
offer tailored credit products, reduce loan approval times, and lower interest rates for borrowers 
with healthy cash flow patterns.
Early use-case data shows that the cumulative unsecured business loans disbursed through 
AAs are estimated at INR 135.77 billion for more than 115 thousand loans. Loans valuing INR 
45.25 billion were disbursed to MSMEs in the first half of 2024-25, which translates into INR 7.5 
billion monthly disbursements. Unsecured business loans to MSMEs account for around 10% of 
the total loans facilitated by the AA Framework. Initial numbers indicate the AA ecosystem has 
significantly impacted MSME loans. Large private banks reported a 30% increase in loans to the 
Priority Sector Lending category, a 25% reduction in customer acquisition costs, and zero fraud 
related to bank statements in AA-facilitated MSME lending. 
Going forward, there is a need to expand the reach of such systems, particularly to improve 
micro-enterprises’ financial access. New, high frequency robust data sources can be leveraged 
by partnering with the private sector. For instance, data from e-commerce platforms can be 
integrated into such networks as the financial information provider. By consolidating cash flow 
and transaction data on MSMEs, e-commerce platforms have the potential to serve as key digital 
financial intermediaries. This allows creditors to assess MSMEs’ cash flow and risk profiles, 
enabling the customisation of financial products and pricing. At the same time, public sector 
banks and non-banking financial corporations can be incentivised to join the network as financial 
information users. 
Source: Inputs from Sahamati - - Collective of Account Aggregator Ecosystem, ICRIER-ADBI Policy Brief (2024) and primary survey 
inputs.