--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 18
Word Range: 4030 - 4376
Word Count: 347
--------------------

[Page 18]
18 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Introduction
215,000) when only manufacturing enterprises were 
considered.18 In India, unsecured loans accounted for 
only a quarter of the total credit disbursed by scheduled 
commercial banks (as of March 2024); private banks 
mainly lent this at relatively high-interest rates. 19 As 
a result, MSMEs face higher borrowing costs than 
larger firms due to the higher risk premiums charged 
by lenders, exacerbated by informational asymmetries 
that increase banks’ risk perception. 20,21
MSMEs also lack adequate access to information and 
markets, particularly international markets.  MSMEs 
struggle to capitalise on market opportunities due 
to their limited access to market information, the 
high costs of accessing such information, and other 
resource constraints. Additionally, trade barriers, 
including standards, technical regulations, logistics, 
and administrative procedures, disproportionately 
affect MSMEs. 22 Their participation in global trade is 
further hindered by asymmetric knowledge and a lack 
of understanding of foreign markets. 23,24 
Digitalisation can help address some of these issues and 
accelerate enterprise development.  Digitalisation is a 
key driver of enterprise development and an important 
tool to address enterprises’ structural challenges. 
Digitalisation brings operational efficiencies for SMEs, 
directly supporting value creation and allowing these 
firms to tap opportunities, enhance performance, 
and embrace innovation and competitiveness. 25 
Connectivity, Internet usage, and digital integration 
help SMEs become sustainably competitive vis-à-
vis larger firms. 26,27 Additionally, digital technologies 
foster entrepreneurship by optimising processes, 
improving decision-making, and enabling product 
customisation.28 Therefore, enterprises must embrace 
digitalisation and establish an online presence, 
including developing websites, to enhance visibility and 
recognition. Digitalisation promotes internal, systemic 
efficiencies, and can also improve external linkages, 
such as improved access to markets and finance, which 
can contribute to enterprise development. 29 
Although Internet usage is growing among 
unincorporated-sector enterprises, its functions remain 
limited. The use of the Internet for entrepreneurial 
activities, such as online transactions, order placement, 
and UPI payments, was about 26.7% in 2023-24 for 
rural and urban areas combined. 30 In 2022-23, most 
firms used the Internet for banking purposes (615 per 
1000 establishments), followed by to access other 
financial services (236 per 1000). A minute proportion 
of firms used the Internet to make sales (81 per 1000) 
and deliver products (27 per 1000). This suggests that 
MSMEs are currently not optimally using the revenue 
generating potential of digital interventions that can 
significantly contribute to enterprise development. 
Low usage is because MSMEs, particularly micro-
enterprises, cannot independently innovate or 
leverage full potential of technology-based tools and 
platforms and often need external support to leverage 
technology. Smaller businesses are often slow to 
embrace digital technologies due to low awareness, 
limited internal resources, skill gaps, and financial 
constraints. Digitalising the vast and heterogeneous 
MSME sector requires collaboration between the 
various stakeholders. This can also create an enabling 
environment for enterprise-level innovation, resource 
sharing, skill development, and access to financial 
and policy support. MSMEs require such assistance, 
including access to common facility centres for 
manufacturing, mentoring, and financial assistance, 
particularly from large enterprises and government, for 
their skill development and digital transformation. This 
is where e-commerce platforms can play a role. 
While some data on MSMEs’ internet usage exists, 
qualitative insights on digitalisation’s impact on their 
growth and development are lacking in the current 
statistical system. Although the benefits of digitalisation 
for small businesses are commonly acknowledged, 
there is limited data to support these claims. To bridge 
this gap, ICRIER surveyed 2,365 MSMEs across India