--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 9 to Page 14
Word Range: 1213 - 2757
Word Count: 1,545
--------------------

[Page 9]
9 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AA Account Aggregator
ADB Asian Development Bank
ADBI Asian Development Bank Institute
ASUSE Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises
B20 Business 20
B2C Business-to-Consumer
DPI Digital Public Infrastructure
GVA Gross Value Added
HSC Higher Secondary Certificate
ICRIER Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations
INR Indian Rupee
ITC International Trade Centre
MFI Microfinance Institution
MSE-CDP Micro & Small Enterprises Cluster Development
MSMEs Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
MUDRA Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency
NBFCs Non-Banking Financial Corporations
NCR National Capital Region
OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
RBI Reserve Bank of India
R&D Research and Development
SME Small and Medium Enterprise
SSC Secondary School Certificate
UBS-ED University of Stellenbosch Business School
ULI Unified Lending Interface
UPI Unified Payments Interface

[Page 10]
10 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India

[Page 11]
11 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Key Highlights of the Report
• Post COVID-19, Indian MSMEs have demonstrated remarkable resilience. Contrary 
to the common perception that MSMEs are generally vulnerable and distressed 
units, ICRIER’s study, based on a survey of 2,365 Udyam-registered manufacturing 
sector MSMEs, indicates a robust performance in recent years. Since 2021, a 
majority of surveyed firms have seen sales growth, profit margins have improved, 
and hiring has increased—showcasing enterprise growth and development. 
• Digitalisation is a key driver of accelerated growth. Firms that have integrated with 
e-commerce platforms have outperformed the non-integrated ones, benefiting 
from faster expansion and many more opportunities opening up.
• Beyond business growth, digitalisation offers significant second-order benefits.  
This year’s survey highlights that firms integrated with e-commerce platforms 
experience better access to finance, international markets, and critical business 
information—irrespective of their size—which is significantly contributing to 
enterprise development.
• Access to finance remains a persistent challenge, but it is not insurmountable.  The 
study finds that as firms grow, financial constraints ease. E-commerce integration 
helps mitigate financial barriers by fostering business expansion and creating a 
stronger information ecosystem for MSMEs that helps them overcome a lack of 
collateral.
• E-commerce serves as a gateway to global trade, particularly for micro-enterprises. 
The majority of export-oriented firms that are integrated on e-commerce platforms 
are leveraging e-commerce platforms to reach international markets. These include 
a significant percentage of micro firms also, proving that even smaller and less 
productive firms can access global opportunities through digital channels.
• Looking ahead, fostering the digital transformation of MSMEs can help tap the full 
potential. Enhancing technology access, upgrading skills, and developing a robust 
support ecosystem will enable firms to maximise the benefits of e-commerce 
integration. Strengthening both physical and digital infrastructure is key to unlocking 
the full potential of MSMEs.

[Page 12]
12 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India

[Page 13]
13 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
Executive Summary
MSMEs dominate the enterprise landscape in India.  
However, they struggle to scale up because of their 
low productivity levels. This is due to the sector’s 
fragmented and largely informal nature. Enterprise 
development is, therefore, key for MSMEs to scale up, 
which is a necessary for a high and sustained growth 
rate and employment generation in India.
Limited access to finance, markets, information, 
and skilled human resources are some of the key 
challenges impeding enterprise development in India.  
Digitalisation offers a pathway to address these issues 
and accelerate enterprise development. Although 
Internet usage is growing among MSMEs, they are 
unable to exploit its potential. This is because MSMEs, 
particularly micro-enterprises, cannot independently 
innovate or leverage the full potential of technology-
based tools and platforms, and often need support 
from large enterprises and the government. 
While some data on MSMEs’ Internet usage exists, 
qualitative insights on digitalisation’s impact on 
their growth and development are currently lacking.  
To examine the impact of digitalisation, specifically 
e-commerce platforms, on the growth and development 
of MSMEs, a survey of 2,365 Udyam-registered 
manufacturing sector firms was conducted in 2024. 
This is the third edition of the survey. A purposive 
sampling technique was used to compare integrated 
and non-integrated businesses. The survey’s design 
facilitated both time series and cross-sectional data 
analysis, making it a key strength of the study. While 
previous surveys have established the key benefits, 
such as increased sales, higher profit margins, and 
positive effects on employment, this study also focuses 
on examining the second-order effects of digitalisation 
on MSMEs. Specifically, it explores how integration 
enhances access to finance, international markets 
(exports), and information—factors that play a crucial 
role in enterprise growth and development. This report 
presents the insights derived from the survey data.
Contrary to the perception that the MSMEs sector 
is struggling and underperforming, the surveyed 
enterprises exhibit a robust growth trajectory.  Most 
respondents reported a rise in sales, profit margins, 
and hiring compared to the previous two years. About 
50% of the surveyed enterprises saw an increase in 
turnover and profits in 2023-24, compared to 2021-22. 
Importantly, over time, a greater percentage of firms are 
moving towards higher turnover ranges, employment 
levels and profit margin. Even though these firms are 
specifically Udyam-registered, it is a promising trend, as 
more businesses are actively registering on the Udyam 
and the Udyam Assist Portal of the Government of 
India, indicating a positive shift.
Integrated firms outperform non-integrated ones.  
Our sample shows that to begin with, more productive 
firms join e-commerce platforms. These are largely 
firms that have higher turnover and profit margins. 
Over years, these firms have shown a stronger growth 
trajectory, surpassing non-integrating firms, in terms of 
turnover, profit and employment. Notably, a substantial 
share of firms (90%) reported growth in sales and 
profit margins after e-commerce integration. Nearly

[Page 14]
14 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
50% of the integrated firms hired new employees post 
integration, out of which nearly 75% firms also hired 
women employees.
Scaling up business is the key reason for joining 
e-commerce platforms, yet offline channels remain 
the dominant mode of sale.  A majority of integrated 
firms joined e-commerce platforms to boost their sales, 
with most enterprises starting to sell on e-commerce 
platforms after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
About 71% of enterprises joined e-commerce platforms 
during or after 2020. However, the survey found that 
while the reliance on online operations, including 
e-commerce platforms, is growing, offline channels 
remain significant medium for sale. 
While previous ICRIER surveys established that 
e-commerce integration positively impacts business 
growth potential, the current study also highlighted 
evidence for interesting second-order effects, which 
can contribute significantly to enterprise development. 
The survey found that as a firm’s size increases, its 
ability to access finance and the international market 
improves. Additionally, firms can gain improved access 
to market information.
The survey found that e-commerce integration 
positively impacts MSMEs’ ability to raise external 
finance at relatively more favourable terms.  By 
enabling firms to expand, e-commerce enhances the 
long-term prospects of MSMEs. The survey revealed 
that relatively larger firms in the MSME segment and 
those integrated with e-commerce performed better 
in terms of financial access. The survey found that the 
average interest rate on MSMEs’ loan is about 12.27%. 
Compared to this, on an average, medium sized firms and 
integrated firms pay a relatively lower rate of interest 
(11.59% and 12.15%, respectively). Additionally, a 
relatively higher share of e-commerce-integrated firms 
could access collateral-free loans. Among integrated 
firms, 51% found their e-commerce presence helpful 
in raising external finance from banks and non-banking 
financial corporations, with medium (60%) and small-
size enterprises (55%) doing better on this front than 
micro firms (48%). Additionally, 30% of integrated firms 
found e-commerce beneficial for raising collateral-free 
loans, with medium firms (33%) leading, followed by 
small (31%) and micro (29%) firms.
Many enterprises made new investments or introduced 
innovative practices after integrating on e-commerce 
platforms, enhancing their long-term growth and 
sustainability. About 62% of the integrated firms 
invested in training their employees, and nearly 50% 
invested in the R&D of new products. More than 90% 
of the firms also introduced innovative practices after 
integrating on platforms. The survey found that while 
business growth remains the most important benefit 
of integrating on e-commerce platforms, medium-
size firms value qualitative benefits (such as access to 
market insights and improvement in product quality) 
more than micro- and small-sized firms. 
As the firm size increases, its export potential too, 
rises, and integrated export-oriented firms use 
e-commerce platforms extensively to export their 
products. About 16% of all surveyed enterprises export 
their products, with medium-size enterprises having 
a higher share of export-oriented firms. The survey 
found that e-commerce offers firms, especially micro-
enterprises, a pathway to participate in global trade. 
About 93% of the export-oriented, integrated firms 
rely on e-commerce platforms to export their products 
to international markets. This includes a considerable 
share of micro-enterprises, highlighting that even 
relatively small firms can utilise e-commerce to reach 
global markets if they choose to export. 
Importantly export potential can be tapped better 
through e-commerce, which can address some 
conventional issues that firms face in exporting their 
products, like information access.  Nearly 21% of 
the firms that do not currently export believe their 
products have export potential. More integrated firms 
(24%) recognise this potential than non-integrated 
ones (18%). Some of the most prominent challenges 
Executive Summary