--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 1523 - 1773
Word Count: 251
--------------------

[Page 11]
11 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Key Highlights of the Report
• Post COVID-19, Indian MSMEs have demonstrated remarkable resilience. Contrary 
to the common perception that MSMEs are generally vulnerable and distressed 
units, ICRIER’s study, based on a survey of 2,365 Udyam-registered manufacturing 
sector MSMEs, indicates a robust performance in recent years. Since 2021, a 
majority of surveyed firms have seen sales growth, profit margins have improved, 
and hiring has increased—showcasing enterprise growth and development. 
• Digitalisation is a key driver of accelerated growth. Firms that have integrated with 
e-commerce platforms have outperformed the non-integrated ones, benefiting 
from faster expansion and many more opportunities opening up.
• Beyond business growth, digitalisation offers significant second-order benefits.  
This year’s survey highlights that firms integrated with e-commerce platforms 
experience better access to finance, international markets, and critical business 
information—irrespective of their size—which is significantly contributing to 
enterprise development.
• Access to finance remains a persistent challenge, but it is not insurmountable.  The 
study finds that as firms grow, financial constraints ease. E-commerce integration 
helps mitigate financial barriers by fostering business expansion and creating a 
stronger information ecosystem for MSMEs that helps them overcome a lack of 
collateral.
• E-commerce serves as a gateway to global trade, particularly for micro-enterprises. 
The majority of export-oriented firms that are integrated on e-commerce platforms 
are leveraging e-commerce platforms to reach international markets. These include 
a significant percentage of micro firms also, proving that even smaller and less 
productive firms can access global opportunities through digital channels.
• Looking ahead, fostering the digital transformation of MSMEs can help tap the full 
potential. Enhancing technology access, upgrading skills, and developing a robust 
support ecosystem will enable firms to maximise the benefits of e-commerce 
integration. Strengthening both physical and digital infrastructure is key to unlocking 
the full potential of MSMEs.

[Page 12]
12 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India