--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C22
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 24 to Page 25
Word Range: 5949 - 6198
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 24]
24 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Tracing the journey of the same firm over the last 
three years a promising picture emerges, which 
does not conform to the impression in the public 
narrative that MSMEs are largely in distress. We 
find that a substantial share of firms experienced 
an increase in turnover, profit margins and hiring. 
The integrated firms among these out-performed 
the non-integrated ones. It is, however, worth 
mentioning that only Udyam registered firms were 
surveyed for this study. 
Most of the firms reported a growth in their 
turnover over the last three years, while a miniscule 
share of firms saw a decline. About 50% of the 
surveyed enterprises saw an increase in turnover 
in 2023-24, compared to 2021-22. In comparison, 
only 2% of the surveyed enterprises saw a decline, 
while others stayed within the same range. While an 
equal share of integrated and non-integrated firms 
saw an increase in the turnover, the absolute level 
of increase in the size of the turnover was higher 
for the integrated firms. This is primarily due to the 
expanded market reach gained through platform 
integration. Interestingly, the survey revealed that 
most enterprises joined e-commerce platforms 
to expand their market reach, and the majority 
successfully achieved this goal.
Additionally, nearly 46% of firms experienced an 
increase in their profit margins in the last two years. 
More than 50% of the firms that experienced a rise 
in profits are integrated on e-commerce platforms. 
Moreover, the absolute margin of increase is higher 
for integrated enterprises than for non-integrated 
firms. 
Notably, around 20% of the surveyed enterprises 
moved from lower to higher employment ranges 
- that is - from hiring less than 10 employees to 
hiring between 10-50 employees, reflecting a clear 
increase in their overall hiring. A relatively higher 
percentage of integrated firms reported such a 
shift, compared to non-integrated ones. During the 
survey, the authors found that as firms expand their 
business, they tend to hire more production workers, 
but on a contractual basis. This is particularly true 
for firms that are export oriented. When they receive 
large export orders, they increase the number of 
production workers on a piece-rate basis. The pilot 
interactions revealed that in some sectors, like 
ready-made garments and food processing, these 
are largely women. Anecdotally, it was reported that 
on production floors, women are more efficient than 
men as they take fewer breaks, are more punctual, 
and work more diligently.
Pictures of the production floors of two units from pilot interviews conducted in September 2024
Indian MSMEs: The story of recovery,  
resilience, and resurgence.

[Page 25]
25 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Table A1 in the Appendix presents a snapshot of 
the characteristics of the firm and its owner. It 
includes information about the owner’s age, gender, 
and education. It also provides information on the 
enterprise’s age and whether it operates out of a 
business or household cluster. 
Most smaller-sized enterprises are relatively new, 
while larger firms have been operational longer.  Over 
50% of the enterprises were established after 2010. 
Around 12% of medium-sized enterprises have been 
operating since before 1990, compared to 9% of small-
sized firms, and 7% of micro-enterprises. 
Most firms operate within business clusters, with 
relatively larger-sized firms having a higher presence 
in these clusters than household clusters. Enumerators 
noted whether firms operated within a business 
or household cluster. Enterprise growth prospects 
improve in business clusters due to better supporting 
infrastructure. About 78% of all enterprises and 100% 
of medium-sized firms operated within a business 
cluster. Consequently, a relatively larger percentage 
of micro firms (about 28%) were operating within 
household clusters. 
Integrated firms are typically owned by younger, more 
educated individuals than non-integrated ones. Figure 
3 shows that 61% of integrated firm owners and 57% 
of non-integrated firm owners are under 35 years old. 
About 85% of integrated enterprise owners and 81% 
of non-integrated firm owners hold graduate-level or 
higher educational qualifications. 
Figure 3:
Distribution of enterprises by age of 
owner and e-commerce integration 
(in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
A greater percentage of integrated firms have 
employees in higher employment brackets, and the 
share of these firms has risen over time.  In general, 
there has been an increase in the share of firms with 
a higher number of employees over the years, thereby 
indicating a growth in hiring in MSMEs. Figure 4 
illustrates that integrated enterprises increasingly hire 
more employees than non-integrated ones. In 2021-
22, 61% of integrated enterprises employed more 
than 10 workers, compared to 49% of non-integrated 
enterprises. By 2023-24, this proportion rose to 77% for 
integrated and 65% for non-integrated enterprises. This 
indicates that integrated enterprises not only employ a 
larger workforce but also exhibit a faster pace of hiring 
compared to their non-integrated counterparts.
3. Characteristics of the Sample
 
2%
57%
35%
6%
2%
59%
34%
5%
2%
55%
36%
7%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
 18-24 Years
 25-35 Years
 36-50 Years
 Over 50 years
Not integratedIntegratedOverall
Characteristics of the Sample