--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C21
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 24
Word Range: 5699 - 5948
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 24]
24 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Tracing the journey of the same firm over the last 
three years a promising picture emerges, which 
does not conform to the impression in the public 
narrative that MSMEs are largely in distress. We 
find that a substantial share of firms experienced 
an increase in turnover, profit margins and hiring. 
The integrated firms among these out-performed 
the non-integrated ones. It is, however, worth 
mentioning that only Udyam registered firms were 
surveyed for this study. 
Most of the firms reported a growth in their 
turnover over the last three years, while a miniscule 
share of firms saw a decline. About 50% of the 
surveyed enterprises saw an increase in turnover 
in 2023-24, compared to 2021-22. In comparison, 
only 2% of the surveyed enterprises saw a decline, 
while others stayed within the same range. While an 
equal share of integrated and non-integrated firms 
saw an increase in the turnover, the absolute level 
of increase in the size of the turnover was higher 
for the integrated firms. This is primarily due to the 
expanded market reach gained through platform 
integration. Interestingly, the survey revealed that 
most enterprises joined e-commerce platforms 
to expand their market reach, and the majority 
successfully achieved this goal.
Additionally, nearly 46% of firms experienced an 
increase in their profit margins in the last two years. 
More than 50% of the firms that experienced a rise 
in profits are integrated on e-commerce platforms. 
Moreover, the absolute margin of increase is higher 
for integrated enterprises than for non-integrated 
firms. 
Notably, around 20% of the surveyed enterprises 
moved from lower to higher employment ranges 
- that is - from hiring less than 10 employees to 
hiring between 10-50 employees, reflecting a clear 
increase in their overall hiring. A relatively higher 
percentage of integrated firms reported such a 
shift, compared to non-integrated ones. During the 
survey, the authors found that as firms expand their 
business, they tend to hire more production workers, 
but on a contractual basis. This is particularly true 
for firms that are export oriented. When they receive 
large export orders, they increase the number of 
production workers on a piece-rate basis. The pilot 
interactions revealed that in some sectors, like 
ready-made garments and food processing, these 
are largely women. Anecdotally, it was reported that 
on production floors, women are more efficient than 
men as they take fewer breaks, are more punctual, 
and work more diligently.
Pictures of the production floors of two units from pilot interviews conducted in September 2024
Indian MSMEs: The story of recovery,  
resilience, and resurgence.