--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 15 to Page 18
Word Range: 2758 - 4166
Word Count: 1,409
--------------------

[Page 15]
15 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
in accessing international markets include information 
gaps and limited access to finance. About 38% of the 
respondents reported that integrating on e-commerce 
platforms can help them overcome some of these 
challenges.
While market access and financing are major hurdles 
for non-integrated firms, the primary challenges 
faced by integrated firms are notably distinct, 
necessitating a two-pronged approach to policy 
intervention. Non-integrated firms continue to face 
the conventional issues, including access to markets 
and finance. Compared to this, top five challenges 
ranked by integrated firms included unavailability of 
skilled manpower to run online business, targeting 
right customers online and marketing products, among 
others. Thus, while it appears that e-commerce has been 
able to subdue the conventional issues to an extent, 
there is a need to address others, which are affecting 
firms ability to fully leverage platforms. Notably, nearly 
48% of integrated MSMEs suggested that there is a 
need to address errors and delays like account de-
listing, and logistics/payment delays, about 44% of 
firms suggested that e-commerce companies should 
work towards checking/reducing frauds. 
Going forward, it is essential for the government 
create a supportive digital ecosystem that empowers 
MSMEs to leverage e-commerce opportunities.  
Taking measures to strengthen cybersecurity, 
enhancing access to technology and bridging 
information gaps will be key to unlocking the sector’s 
untapped potential. Moreover, fostering an ecosystem 
enabling firms to maximise the second-order benefits 
of e-commerce integration is important. This can 
be achieved by developing supportive physical and 
digital infrastructure that harness the advantages 
of e-commerce integration. By addressing these 
challenges, India can further accelerate enterprise 
development, ensuring that MSMEs continue to play 
a vital role in economic growth and employment 
generation. 
Executive Summary

[Page 16]
The Role of Digitalisation in Enterprise 
Development
Annual Survey of Micro, Small  
and Medium Enterprises  
(MSMEs) in India

[Page 17]
17 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Once considered vestiges of the informal sector, 
micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) now 
dominate India’s enterprise landscape. 1 In 2023-24, 
there were about 73.4 million unincorporated non-
agriculture enterprises in the country, employing 120 
million people and contributing 16.5% of the total gross 
value added (GVA).2 There has been a 12.8% growth in 
their number of and a 10% growth in their employment 
count in 2023-24, compared to 2022-23. 
To formally recognise MSMEs in India, a registration 
process was introduced, now known as Udyam 
registration.3 There are over 35 million firms registered 
on the Udyam Portal and over 25 million firms registered 
on the Udyam Assist Portal, which aims to formalise 
the informal sector enterprises. These together employ 
more than 250 million people. 4 MSMEs contribute 
significantly to the national output, employment and 
play a key role in India’s economic development. 
Yet, MSMEs in India grapple with the issue of 
low productivity.  Existing studies highlight that 
productivity levels in MSMEs are about half that of 
large enterprises, with the problem more pronounced 
in emerging market economies. 5 In India, small 
businesses are only one-fourth as productive as large 
enterprises, exhibiting a wider gap than that in most 
emerging market economies. 6 Larger scale generally 
raises productivity on account of improved access to 
intangible capital, global connections, and better access 
to financial capital.7 
The MSME sector is mainly informal and fragmented, 
and so productivity levels tend to be low.  Micro-
enterprises comprise the largest share of India’s MSME 
sector. About 85% of unincorporated firms are own-
account enterprises and more than 98% of the Udyam 
registered enterprises are micro-sized. The share of 
registered enterprises was only around 37% of the 
total unincorporated non-agriculture enterprises in 
2023-24. In the manufacturing sector, however, the 
share of registered enterprises is much smaller. 10 
These structural characteristics inhibit the enterprises’ 
potential to scale up, without which they cannot 
contribute to the national output and employment in a 
sustainable manner. 
Enterprise development, therefore, is key to India’s 
growth and employment generation.  While there 
is no universally accepted definition of ‘enterprise 
development’, it can be understood to mean “the act 
of investing time and capital to help people establish, 
expand or improve business”. 11 It involves establishing 
a new enterprise or scaling up an existing business to 
become a key source of economic growth, employment, 
and wealth creation. 12 In India, where there is a 
predominance of small and informal-sector firms, 
enterprise development initiatives can help firms scale 
up and improve their productivity, thereby boosting 
their output and employment generating potential. 13 
To achieve this, tackling the fundamental challenges 
hindering enterprise development is essential.
Limited access to finance, markets, information, 
and skilled labour are some challenges impeding 
enterprise development in India. 14 Access to finance 
is a significant bottleneck. Financial institutions 
perceive MSMEs as high-risk borrowers due to a 
lack of data on creditworthiness. 15,16 Globally, 79% of 
loans require collateral. MSMEs typically do not have 
fixed assets, machinery, or equipment. 17 On average, 
fixed assets owned per establishment were valued 
at INR 318,000 in 2022-23 for unincorporated non-
agriculture enterprises, and the value was lower (INR 
Introduction
1. Introduction

[Page 18]
18 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Introduction
215,000) when only manufacturing enterprises were 
considered.18 In India, unsecured loans accounted for 
only a quarter of the total credit disbursed by scheduled 
commercial banks (as of March 2024); private banks 
mainly lent this at relatively high-interest rates. 19 As 
a result, MSMEs face higher borrowing costs than 
larger firms due to the higher risk premiums charged 
by lenders, exacerbated by informational asymmetries 
that increase banks’ risk perception. 20,21
MSMEs also lack adequate access to information and 
markets, particularly international markets.  MSMEs 
struggle to capitalise on market opportunities due 
to their limited access to market information, the 
high costs of accessing such information, and other 
resource constraints. Additionally, trade barriers, 
including standards, technical regulations, logistics, 
and administrative procedures, disproportionately 
affect MSMEs. 22 Their participation in global trade is 
further hindered by asymmetric knowledge and a lack 
of understanding of foreign markets. 23,24 
Digitalisation can help address some of these issues and 
accelerate enterprise development.  Digitalisation is a 
key driver of enterprise development and an important 
tool to address enterprises’ structural challenges. 
Digitalisation brings operational efficiencies for SMEs, 
directly supporting value creation and allowing these 
firms to tap opportunities, enhance performance, 
and embrace innovation and competitiveness. 25 
Connectivity, Internet usage, and digital integration 
help SMEs become sustainably competitive vis-à-
vis larger firms. 26,27 Additionally, digital technologies 
foster entrepreneurship by optimising processes, 
improving decision-making, and enabling product 
customisation.28 Therefore, enterprises must embrace 
digitalisation and establish an online presence, 
including developing websites, to enhance visibility and 
recognition. Digitalisation promotes internal, systemic 
efficiencies, and can also improve external linkages, 
such as improved access to markets and finance, which 
can contribute to enterprise development. 29 
Although Internet usage is growing among 
unincorporated-sector enterprises, its functions remain 
limited. The use of the Internet for entrepreneurial 
activities, such as online transactions, order placement, 
and UPI payments, was about 26.7% in 2023-24 for 
rural and urban areas combined. 30 In 2022-23, most 
firms used the Internet for banking purposes (615 per 
1000 establishments), followed by to access other 
financial services (236 per 1000). A minute proportion 
of firms used the Internet to make sales (81 per 1000) 
and deliver products (27 per 1000). This suggests that 
MSMEs are currently not optimally using the revenue 
generating potential of digital interventions that can 
significantly contribute to enterprise development. 
Low usage is because MSMEs, particularly micro-
enterprises, cannot independently innovate or 
leverage full potential of technology-based tools and 
platforms and often need external support to leverage 
technology. Smaller businesses are often slow to 
embrace digital technologies due to low awareness, 
limited internal resources, skill gaps, and financial 
constraints. Digitalising the vast and heterogeneous 
MSME sector requires collaboration between the 
various stakeholders. This can also create an enabling 
environment for enterprise-level innovation, resource 
sharing, skill development, and access to financial 
and policy support. MSMEs require such assistance, 
including access to common facility centres for 
manufacturing, mentoring, and financial assistance, 
particularly from large enterprises and government, for 
their skill development and digital transformation. This 
is where e-commerce platforms can play a role. 
While some data on MSMEs’ internet usage exists, 
qualitative insights on digitalisation’s impact on their 
growth and development are lacking in the current 
statistical system. Although the benefits of digitalisation 
for small businesses are commonly acknowledged, 
there is limited data to support these claims. To bridge 
this gap, ICRIER surveyed 2,365 MSMEs across India