--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C36
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 37 to Page 38
Word Range: 9940 - 10189
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 37]
37 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Figure 16: Distribution of enterprises by reason for quitting e-commerce platform (in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
A significant percentage of firms, most of these being 
small enterprises, indicated a desire to join e-commerce 
platforms in the future.  About 35% of the surveyed 
enterprises would like to join e-commerce platforms 
going forward. The percentage was higher for small-
sized enterprises (43%). Better information technology 
infrastructure and lower platform charges are some 
factors that can encourage firms to join e-commerce 
platforms. 
Pictures of e-commerce stock holding and dispatch area clicked during pilot survey in July 2024.
60% 
50% 
40% 
30% 
20% 
10% 
0% 
 
 
Did not Products are Platforms High Did not have    E-commerce Did not Did not 
have returned charges are    competition the right was not have have the 
the right high on platforms skills profitable enough capacity 
knowledge (technical skills, 
inventory 
management) 
option staff (in terms of 
stock and 
inventory) 
 
 Overall  Micro  Small  Medium 
43% 43% 42% 40% 39% 
35% 33% 30% 
Leveraging E-commerce Platforms

[Page 38]
38 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
MSMEs’ access to finance:  
A challenge that is at last subduable. 
Limited access to finance remains one of the most significant challenges for MSMEs, which is a 
primary obstacle to their scaling potential. Our discussions this year highlighted two major issues: 
first, securing finance for working capital, particularly small ticket-size, short-duration loans, 
without which firms struggle to take on multiple orders; and second, high interest rates, largely 
due to lack of collateral or the burden of multiple ongoing loans. During the pilot interviews, some 
firms noted that they were being charged interest rates of around 16-17% with collateral, and 24-
25% without collateral by commercial banks. At these rates, the struggle is real particularly for 
export-oriented firms that compete in global markets, operating often on thin profit margins. 
One exporting MSME, a contract manufacturer, said that stretched working capital is the biggest 
hurdle restricting their ability to scale. Although they have the capacity to increase production, 
their ability to do so is hamstrung by the unaffordability of / inability to secure multiple 
loans simultaneously. That is because many of their orders tend to be unsupported by formal 
documentation (as it often follows much later), which could serve as collateral for loans but in the 
absence of which they end up pledging their machinery instead.
However, digital transformation has led to the emergence of innovative solutions to enhance 
MSMEs’ access to finance, specifically addressing challenges related to collateral and small-
ticket loans. Expert discussions highlighted that data-driven digital public infrastructure, such 
as the Unified Lending Interface and the Account Aggregator Framework, have the potential to 
revolutionise credit access for underserved segments like MSMEs. Additionally, these frameworks 
can facilitate quicker disbursement through digital lending. Their effectiveness, however, depends 
on the depth and quality of available information. 
Another promising solution is digital, collateral-free loans offered by non-banking financial 
corporations (NBFCs) in partnership with e-commerce platforms. These financial intermediaries 
assess loan eligibility based on sellers’ cash-flow data from e-commerce platforms, enabling swift 
disbursement. Primarily designed as small-ticket loans, they help businesses manage working 
capital gaps, inventory, and purchase cycles, among other financial needs.
Addressing this challenge requires a collective effort from commercial and public sector banks, 
NBFCs, microfinance institutions, and private companies. Additionally, regulatory reforms are 
needed to align MSME credit assessment criteria with the sector’s unique characteristics. MSMEs 
are often denied small-ticket loans from banks due to associated risks and the potential unviability 
of such loans given the high costs of operating bank branches. Micro-finance institutions and 
NBFCs are typically better placed to address these financial needs.