--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 1774 - 2023
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 13]
13 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
Executive Summary
MSMEs dominate the enterprise landscape in India.  
However, they struggle to scale up because of their 
low productivity levels. This is due to the sector’s 
fragmented and largely informal nature. Enterprise 
development is, therefore, key for MSMEs to scale up, 
which is a necessary for a high and sustained growth 
rate and employment generation in India.
Limited access to finance, markets, information, 
and skilled human resources are some of the key 
challenges impeding enterprise development in India.  
Digitalisation offers a pathway to address these issues 
and accelerate enterprise development. Although 
Internet usage is growing among MSMEs, they are 
unable to exploit its potential. This is because MSMEs, 
particularly micro-enterprises, cannot independently 
innovate or leverage the full potential of technology-
based tools and platforms, and often need support 
from large enterprises and the government. 
While some data on MSMEs’ Internet usage exists, 
qualitative insights on digitalisation’s impact on 
their growth and development are currently lacking.  
To examine the impact of digitalisation, specifically 
e-commerce platforms, on the growth and development 
of MSMEs, a survey of 2,365 Udyam-registered 
manufacturing sector firms was conducted in 2024. 
This is the third edition of the survey. A purposive 
sampling technique was used to compare integrated 
and non-integrated businesses. The survey’s design 
facilitated both time series and cross-sectional data 
analysis, making it a key strength of the study. While 
previous surveys have established the key benefits, 
such as increased sales, higher profit margins, and 
positive effects on employment, this study also focuses 
on examining the second-order effects of digitalisation 
on MSMEs. Specifically, it explores how integration 
enhances access to finance, international markets 
(exports), and information—factors that play a crucial 
role in enterprise growth and development. This report 
presents the insights derived from the survey data.
Contrary to the perception that the MSMEs sector 
is struggling and underperforming, the surveyed 
enterprises exhibit a robust growth trajectory.  Most 
respondents reported a rise in sales, profit margins, 
and hiring compared to the previous two years. About 
50% of the surveyed enterprises saw an increase in 
turnover and profits in 2023-24, compared to 2021-22. 
Importantly, over time, a greater percentage of firms are 
moving towards higher turnover ranges, employment 
levels and profit margin. Even though these firms are 
specifically Udyam-registered, it is a promising trend, as 
more businesses are actively registering on the Udyam 
and the Udyam Assist Portal of the Government of 
India, indicating a positive shift.
Integrated firms outperform non-integrated ones.  
Our sample shows that to begin with, more productive 
firms join e-commerce platforms. These are largely 
firms that have higher turnover and profit margins. 
Over years, these firms have shown a stronger growth 
trajectory, surpassing non-integrating firms, in terms of 
turnover, profit and employment. Notably, a substantial 
share of firms (90%) reported growth in sales and 
profit margins after e-commerce integration. Nearly