--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 19 to Page 20
Word Range: 4377 - 4626
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 19]
19 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Introduction
to assess the impact of digitalisation on their business 
prospects, access to finance, and export potential. The 
survey explored how digital interventions, particularly 
participation in e-commerce platforms, influence 
enterprise development. This report presents the 
insights derived from the survey data.
The rest of the report is organised as follows.  Section 
2 introduces the survey by describing the sample 
framework and data collection process. Section 3 
presents the characteristics of the sample, such as 
age, ownership and turnover of the enterprise. Section 
4 discusses the typical journey of the enterprise, 
focusing on integrated firms. It presents how business 
and growth prospects emerged after firms integrated 
on e-commerce platforms. Section 5 discusses MSMEs’ 
experience accessing formal finance and compares the 
experiences of integrated and non-integrated firms. 
Section 6 presents the findings on international market 
access, particularly the export orientation of MSMEs 
and contrasts between integrated and non-integrated 
enterprises. Section 7 highlights the challenges and 
recommends a way forward.

[Page 20]
20 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
2. Survey Framework and Data 
Collection Process
The objective of the survey was to examine the impact 
of digitalisation, specifically e-commerce platforms, 
on the growth and development of MSMEs. A total 
of 2,365 Udyam-registered manufacturing-sector 
MSMEs were surveyed for this study. Purposive 
sampling was followed to include an equal number 
of firms integrated on e-commerce platforms and 
those that are not. A pilot survey was conducted in 
the National Capital Region in July 2024, and the 
field survey was conducted between September and 
November 2024. 
A cluster-based approach was adopted to identify 
MSMEs within the selected sectors. The study covered 
seven sectors: ready-to-wear garments; furniture; 
processed and preserved food; toys; sports goods; 
handicraft products; and consumer electronics (Figure 
1). An equal number of respondents were selected from 
each product category to ensure that sectoral biases do 
not impede the findings.
 
Figure 1: Distribution of enterprises by sectors (in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process
14% 15%
15%
14%
14%
14%
14%
Wearing Apparel Consumer Electronics 
Sports Goods Furniture
Handicraft ItemsTo y s
Processed and Preserved Food
The selection of states and cities was as per the 
previous survey, which was based on a natural fallout 
of majority clusters in selected product categories 
(Figure 2). Twelve Indian states and 24 cities/centres 
were covered in the survey.