--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-108-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-108
Page Range: Page 1
Word Range: 501 - 779
Word Count: 279
--------------------

[Page 1]
Sustainable Production and Consumption 39 (2023) 203–215
Available online 18 April 2023
2352-5509/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Institution of Chemical Engineers. This is an open access article under the CC BY license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Overcoming barriers to implement digital technologies to achieve 
sustainable production and consumption in the food sector: A circular 
economy perspective 
Manu Sharma
a , g , 1
, Sudhanshu Joshi
b , h , 1
, Kannan Govindan
c , d , e , f , * , 1 
a
Department of Management Studies, Graphic Era Deemed to be University, India 
b
Operations and Supply Chain Management Area, School of Management, Doon University, India 
c
Center for Sustainable Supply Chain Engineering, Department of Technology and Innovation, Danish Institute for Advanced Study, University of Southern Denmark, 
Campusvej 55, Odense M, Denmark 
d
China Institute of FTZ Supply Chain, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai 201306, China 
e
Yonsei Frontier Lab, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea 
f
School of Business, Woxsen University, Sadasivpet, Telangana, India 
g
Guildhall School of Business and Law, London Metropolitan University, London 
h
Australian Artificial Intelligence Institute (AAII), University of Technology Sydney, Australia   
ARTICLE INFO  
Editor: Prof Konstantinos Tsagarakis  
Keywords: 
Sustainable production and consumption 
Digital technologies 
Food supply chains 
Circular economy 
ABSTRACT  
Food security and waste minimisation are the main concerns for the management of food supply chains (FSC), as 
> 33 % of global food production is wasted or lost due to mismanagement. Stakeholders must address the 
ongoing issues, such as resource scarcity, climate change, waste creation etc. to create an environment conducive 
to sustainable production and consumption (SPC) and to promote economic sustainability. Resource efficiency 
and waste minimization are necessary for SPC in the FSC. Technologies from the Industry 4.0 era have 
demonstrated their ability to address these problems effectively. However, there are barriers to the adoption of 
digital technology because of internal or external issues. Therefore, it is necessary to examine the challenges 
faced by the food industry while applying digital technology to attain SPC. The current study has adopted an 
integrated methodology of Best-Worst-Method (BWM)-Level Based Weight Assessment (LBWA) and Combined 
Compromise Solution (CoCoSo) methods to analyse the barriers in implementing digital technologies to achieve 
SPC in FSC. Strategic measures to overcome these barriers are suggested. The BWM-LBWA-CoCoSo technique is 
used for the first time in this study to evaluate the barriers and determine the most effective strategies. According 
to the BWM-LBWA research, “ organisational barriers ” are the main impediment to the adoption of digital 
technology for SPC in the FSC. According to CoCoSo findings, the best way to overcome the major barriers is to 
“ focus on improving commitment from senior management towards SPC. ” The study gives decision-makers in -
formation about the major barriers in utilizing advanced digital technology to achieve SPC in FSC.   
1. Introduction 
Sustainable production and consumption (SPC) is regarded as the 
main driving force behind economic reform and sustainable growth. Its 
importance is highlighted by Sustainable Development Goal-12 (SDG) of 
the United Nations, which aims to promote sustainable development and 
responsible production ( Beier et al., 2018 ; Guo et al., 2022 ). Recently, 
reverse logistics, closed-loop supply chains, circular economy acts as an 
environemnetal and sustainability tool in various supply chain 
applications ( Kannan et al., 2023 ; Butt et al., 2023 ; Aryee and Adaku, 
2023 ; Mondal et al., 2022 ). A new era in which the integration of triple 
bottom line dimensions, including environmental, social and economic 
progress, is required for the expansion of the economy in a sustainable 
manner. National policies and strategies assist stakeholders in managing 
tradeoffs and fostering synergy between SPC and SDGs ( Obersteiner 
et al., 2016 ). Data management, real-time decision-making, creative 
approaches for extending the end-of-life and shelf life of perishable 
items etc. have changed throughout the present Industry 4.0 era; this has 
unquestionably enhanced SPC in FSC ( G ¨olzer and Fritzsche, 2017 ; Ekren 
* Corresponding author at: China Institute of FTZ Supply Chain, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai 201306, China. 
E-mail address: kgov@iti.sdu.dk (K. Govindan).   
1 
The author's order is based on academic seniority. 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Sustainable Production and Consumption 
journal homepag e: www.el sevier.com/loc ate/spc 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2023.04.002 
Received 23 August 2022; Received in revised form 27 March 2023; Accepted 3 April 2023