--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 73 to Page 75
Word Range: 5053 - 5528
Word Count: 476
--------------------

[Page 73]
71
exceeding ₹1 crore, while a bank guarantee is 
not mandatory. 
• Early redemption is permitted as an incentive
for fast-track enterprises to boost exports. If the
license holder has fulfilled 75% or more of the
specific export obligation and 100% of the
average export requirement, if any, in less than
50% of the original term, the remaining export
obligation will be waived.
Duty Drawback Scheme • Drawback allowed up-to two years from the date
of import.
• Partial redemption of the paid duty, to be a
certain percentage, where the identity of the
goods is clearly defined by the authorised
personnel from the Customs.
• Redemption percentage dependent on the time
after the goods are imported.
Remission of Duties 
and Taxes on Exported 
Products (RoDTEP) 
Scheme 
• Refund of Duties/Taxes at Central, State and
Local Level.
• Refund includes indirect taxes on goods and
services used in the production of the exported
product.
Table 7: Initiatives to simplify and fast track certain aspects of export 
procedure  
Initiative Description 
Liberalized Indian AEO 
(Authorized Economic 
• Internationally recognised certificate• Internationally recognised certificate• Internationally recognised certificate

[Page 74]
72
Operator) Program for 
MSMEs 
• Granting of AEO status within only 15 days
from electronic submission of complete
documents for AEO Tier T1.
• Swifter Customs clearance for accredited
stakeholders in the global supply chain viz.
importers, exporters, logistic service providers,
custodians etc.
• Bank Guarantee up- to 50%, 75%, and 100%
respectively for T1, T2, and T3.
• The facility of Direct Port Delivery (DPD) of
imported containers, Direct Port Entry (DPE) of
their Export Containers, high level of facilitation
in customs clearance of their consignments
thereby ensuring shorter cargo release time.
• Exemption from Bank guarantees, priority for
refund/ rebate/ duty Drawback, as well as a
Client Relationship Manager at the customs
port as a single point of interaction.
• Deferment of payment of Customs duty i.e., it is
not required to paid before the clearance of the
imported goods by Customs.
Status Holder 
Certification 
• Authorisation and customs clearances for both
imports and exports on self-declaration basis.
• Bank Guarantee up-to 100%.
• Allowance of Export of free-of-cost samples,
without any duties, subject to certain annual
limits.
• Submission of paperless declaration without
any supporting document.

[Page 75]
73
• Status Holder Certification is categorised
across 5 categories denoted with stars, based
on their export values (FOB/FOR) in 2 out of 4
years, with USD 3 million, 15 million, 50 million,
200 million, and 800 million for 1 star, 2-star, 3-
star, 4 star and 5 stars, respectively.
• Input-output norms are fixed on priority basis,
within 60 days by the Norms Committee.
Advanced 
Authorisation 
• No advanced duty payments at the time of
import, which includes duties like Basic Custom
Duty, Additional Custom Duty, Education Cess,
Anti-Dumping Duty, Countervailing Duty,
Safeguard Duty, and Transition Product Specific
Safeguard Duty.
73