--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 1989 - 2238
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 14]
A handful of firms are contributing to statistics reported from the MSME sector. According to NSS 
estimates in 2015, there were approximately 6.34 crore MSMEs in India. However, a closer examination of 
the sector's composition reveals a very skewed distribution. Out of the total 6.34 crore MSMEs, nearly 6.3 
crore are in fact microenterprises which have less than 20 workers and hence are outside most formal 
regulation (other than ESl)8• Only the rest of the 12.8 lakhs which are above the 20- worker threshold are 
therefore part of the formal system (e.g., PF system) 9• 
Among these ~13 lakh enterprises registered in the Provident Fund database, around 70,000 have 
revenues exceeding 5 crores, thereby crossing the threshold from the micro category to the small 
category. The remaining 9.3 lakhs, despite being formal enterprises with more than 20 workers, still fall 
under the micro segment in terms of revenue definition 10• 
The current policy landscape in India incentivizes MSMEs to remain dwarfs, hindering their ability 
to reap the benefits of economies of scale. For instance, the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA), 1947 
mandates companies to get permission from the Government before retrenchment of employees. This 
restriction is, however, applicable only to firms with more than 100 employees. This means that firms with 
less than 100 employees do not have to get permission from the government before firing their 
employees. 
Small businesses are indeed the primary beneficiaries of various policy initiatives and economic packages, 
aimed at providing support and fostering their development. However, these very incentives 
unintentionally create a disincentive for these businesses to surpass certain thresholds and expand their 
operations. As a result, MSMEs face significant challenges in capitalizing on the advantages offered by 
economies of scale. By staying small, they miss the potential cost savings, increased efficiency, and 
enhanced competitiveness that come with expanding their operations. The reluctance to grow beyond 
their initial size limits their ability to tap into larger markets, access better resources, and attract 
investments for innovation and expansion. 
Figure 2.2 compares India's market size to the global market size for MSME- Dominant industries. 
Contrary to popular belief, the domestic market size for these industries accounts for only 0-2% of 
the global market size 11. While India has a large population, a significant proportion of it is still 
economically disadvantaged, and thus has limited purchasing power. This means that the effective size of 
the Indian market is smaller despite its large population. High competition along with small 
market size isn't ideal growth environment for any manufacturing MSME. 
• Indian Market 
Size 
e Global Market 
Size 
Source: FED Analysis based on market reports 
Toys Leather 
Goods 
$991 
$756 
Handicrafts Readymade 
Garments 
Figure 2.2: Indian market size and global market size for the MSME dominated industries, in USO Billion 
08Note: ESI stands for Employee State Insurance. It is a contribution made by employees as well as employers to support employees to take 
part in self-financed, healthcare, insurance funds. 
09Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 
10Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 12 
11FED Analysis based on Market Reports