--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 14
Word Range: 1219 - 2453
Word Count: 1,235
--------------------

[Page 11]
Improve Access to Export Finance 
Access to finance is regularly seen as a key bottleneck for MSMEs. Towards this end, promotion of Export 
Credit Guarantee can help improve working capital availability for MSMEs. The current uptake of ECGC 
schemes is only 10% and the government must create an incentive package to increase it to 50% or more. 
Finally, a single marketplace can be created, like in the case of higher education loans, where all providers 
of export credit can compete for business and help reduce the cost to MSMEs. 
Ensure Accurate Measurement 
Currently, a dependable single data source for MSME exports is lacking. The existing estimates of MSME 
exports are likely unreliable and almost certainly inflated, given that they rely on an outdated list of 
reserved sectors for MSMEs. Initiating any improvement requires accurate measurement and consistent 
tracking of impact. Establishing a reliable depiction of MSME exports involves integrating DGFT trade data 
with GST and income tax data. This fusion of datasets, utilizing PAN numbers as the common identifier, will 
provide an accurate portrayal of MSME exports. A key issue is reluctance to share information across 
government departments. To resolve this, a committee could be formed with representatives from DGFT 
as well as the finance ministry along with the MSME ministry to create a mechanism for sharing requisite 
information without compromising confidential data of individual firms. 
Overall, the potential of MSMEs to grow exports is enormous. This potential can be realized through some 
pragmatic measures which reduce the cost and friction of doing business for these firms. The measures 
proposed in this report can help boost MSME exports without placing any additional fiscal burden in the 
form of incentives or subsidies. This report employs a comprehensive research methodology combining 
secondary research and stakeholder analysis to achieve a thorough understanding of the subject. The 
secondary research phase involved an in-depth literature review and data collection from various data 
sources, including government publications and industry reports. Simultaneously, a stakeholder analysis 
was conducted, wherein relevant stakeholders were identified, and structured interviews were carried out 
to map their perspectives. The qualitative insights obtained from stakeholder interactions were 
integrated with the quantitative data derived from secondary research, to provide a holistic 
understanding of the subject. 
Boosting Exports from MSMEs 09

[Page 13]
In 2020, the Finance Ministry decided to change the definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
(MSMEs) because the low threshold limit in the old definition of MSMEs prevented them from expanding 
since they might lose certain benefits that MSMEs enjoy. The other change that has been introduced was 
to add turnover as another measure to define an MSME. 
Table 2.1: Revised Definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Parameters Micro Small Medium 
Investment in Plant and Machinery < 1 Crore INR < l0Crore lNR < 50 Crore INR 
Annual Turnover < 5 Crore INR < 50 Crore INR < 250 Crore INR 
No. of MSMEs (Based on NSS data) 6.3 Crore 3.3 Lakh 5 thousand 
No. of MSMEs 1.5 Crore 4.6 Lakh 41 thousand 
(Based on Udyam data as on 31st 
March 2023) 
Between FY 2019 and FY 2021, India witnessed a steep rise in the establishment of new MSMEs units. 
Around 40 lakh new Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) were established6. This remarkable 
growth can be attributed to the rising number of new micro-enterprises, which played a crucial role in 
driving the overall increase in the number of new MSMEs being established. 
Over the last 8 years, the share of MSME units engaged in manufacturing has grown by ~ 7%. Currently, 
around 38% of the total 54 lakh MSME units7 are engaged in manufacturing. 
Figure 2.1 provides an insight into the distribution of activity share among the categories of MSMEs. We 
clearly see that the bulk of manufacturing activity which is suitable for export is distributed largely 
amongst small and medium enterprises. 
• Manufacturing • Services
Source: Udyam Registration Publication 
Figure 2.1: Activity share of MSMEs across the three categories of MSME 
52% 
According to the 2020-21 Annual Report of the Ministry of MSMEs, the top five states with the highest 
concentration of manufacturing MSMEs are Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and 
Gujarat. 
06Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 
07Udyam Dashboard 
11

[Page 14]
A handful of firms are contributing to statistics reported from the MSME sector. According to NSS 
estimates in 2015, there were approximately 6.34 crore MSMEs in India. However, a closer examination of 
the sector's composition reveals a very skewed distribution. Out of the total 6.34 crore MSMEs, nearly 6.3 
crore are in fact microenterprises which have less than 20 workers and hence are outside most formal 
regulation (other than ESl)8• Only the rest of the 12.8 lakhs which are above the 20- worker threshold are 
therefore part of the formal system (e.g., PF system) 9• 
Among these ~13 lakh enterprises registered in the Provident Fund database, around 70,000 have 
revenues exceeding 5 crores, thereby crossing the threshold from the micro category to the small 
category. The remaining 9.3 lakhs, despite being formal enterprises with more than 20 workers, still fall 
under the micro segment in terms of revenue definition 10• 
The current policy landscape in India incentivizes MSMEs to remain dwarfs, hindering their ability 
to reap the benefits of economies of scale. For instance, the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA), 1947 
mandates companies to get permission from the Government before retrenchment of employees. This 
restriction is, however, applicable only to firms with more than 100 employees. This means that firms with 
less than 100 employees do not have to get permission from the government before firing their 
employees. 
Small businesses are indeed the primary beneficiaries of various policy initiatives and economic packages, 
aimed at providing support and fostering their development. However, these very incentives 
unintentionally create a disincentive for these businesses to surpass certain thresholds and expand their 
operations. As a result, MSMEs face significant challenges in capitalizing on the advantages offered by 
economies of scale. By staying small, they miss the potential cost savings, increased efficiency, and 
enhanced competitiveness that come with expanding their operations. The reluctance to grow beyond 
their initial size limits their ability to tap into larger markets, access better resources, and attract 
investments for innovation and expansion. 
Figure 2.2 compares India's market size to the global market size for MSME- Dominant industries. 
Contrary to popular belief, the domestic market size for these industries accounts for only 0-2% of 
the global market size 11. While India has a large population, a significant proportion of it is still 
economically disadvantaged, and thus has limited purchasing power. This means that the effective size of 
the Indian market is smaller despite its large population. High competition along with small 
market size isn't ideal growth environment for any manufacturing MSME. 
• Indian Market 
Size 
e Global Market 
Size 
Source: FED Analysis based on market reports 
Toys Leather 
Goods 
$991 
$756 
Handicrafts Readymade 
Garments 
Figure 2.2: Indian market size and global market size for the MSME dominated industries, in USO Billion 
08Note: ESI stands for Employee State Insurance. It is a contribution made by employees as well as employers to support employees to take 
part in self-financed, healthcare, insurance funds. 
09Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 
10Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 12 
11FED Analysis based on Market Reports