--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C53
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 37 to Page 38
Word Range: 14953 - 15202
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 37]
32
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
units and the public to utilize on a hiring basis for a substantial part of the capacity. The 
eligibility of a project under this category would be decided based on the benefit to 
farmers and industry at large, viability gap, absence of private investment, criticality to 
value chain, etc. Credit linked grant would be available @ 35%. The maximum limit of 
the grant in such cases would be as prescribed. 
The following are the focus areas for capacity building under the scheme: 
1. Premises for assaying of agriculture produce, sorting, grading, warehouse and cold  
storage at the farm-gate; 
2. Common processing facility for processing of ODOP produce; 
3. Incubation Centre should involve one or more product lines, which could be utilized 
by smaller units on a hire basis for the processing of their produce. The Incubation 
Centre may partly be used for training purposes. It should be run on a commercial 
basis. 
4. Branding & Marketing Support : Marketing and branding support would be 
provided to groups of FPOs/SHGs/ Cooperatives or an SPV of micro food 
processing enterprises unde r the scheme. Following the ODOP approach, 
marketing & branding support would only be provided for such a product at the 
State or regional level . 
Eligible items for support under the scheme:  
 Training relating to marketing to be f ully funded under the scheme  
 Developing a common brand and packaging including standardization to 
participate in common packaging  
 Marketing tie -up with national and regional retail chai ns and state -level 
institutions  
 Quality control to ensure product quali ty meets the required standards 
Support for marketing and branding requires developing a common brand, common 
packaging, and product standardization. The appropriate level for common branding 
and packaging would differ from place to place, case to case, and product to product. 
Whether it should be district, regional, or state level would be decided by the 
concerned SNA in each case. Therefore, the proposal for support to marketing and 
branding should be prepared by the SNA. Support for branding and marketing would 
 
 Support to individual SHG members as a single unit  of food pro cessing 
industry with credit linked grant @35% with the maximum amount being Rs 10 
lakh.  
 Support for capital investment  at the federation of SHG level, with credit 
linked grant @35%. The maximum limit of grant in such cases would be as 
prescribed.  
 Training  & Handholding Support to SHGs:  For support to SHGs, a large 
number of trained resource persons are available with State Rural Livelihood 
Missions (SRLMs). These local resource persons of SRLM having expertise in 
agro -produce would be utilized for training , upgradation of units, DPR 
preparation, handholding support, etc.  
2. Seed Capital t o SHG: Seed capital @ Rs. 40,000/ - per SHG member would be 
provided to those engaged in food processing for working capital and purchase 
of small tools. Priority would be give n for SHGs involved in ODOP produce in 
giving seed capital. Seed capital as a grant would be provided to the SHG 
federation which, in turn, would be extended to members as a loan through the 
SHGs. The SHG federation would provide this amount as a loan to t he members 
of SHGs to be repaid to the SHG.  Eligibility Criteria for Seed Capital for SHGs:  
1. Only SHG members that are presently engaged in food processing would be 
eligible.  
2. The SHG member has to commit to utilize this amount for working capital and 
purchase of small tools and give a commitment in this regard to the SHG and SHG 
federation.  
3. Before providing the seed capital, SHG Federation should collect the following 
basic details for each of the members:  
 Details of the product being processed;  
 Other activities undertaken  
 Annual turnover  
 Source of raw mat erials and marketing of produce  
 
3. Common Infrastructure: Common infrastructure support would be provided to FPOs, 
SHGs, cooperatives, any Government agency, or private enterprises. Common 
infrastructure created under the PM FME scheme should also be available for other

[Page 38]
33
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
be limited to 50% of the total expenditure. The maximum limit of grant in such cases 
would be as prescribed. No support would be provided for opening retail outlets under 
the scheme.  
Vertical products at the national level could also be provided support for branding & 
marketing on the same lines as described above for ODOP focus. Such support for 
common branding/packaging and marketing would be provided at the national level. 
Proposal for that support should be sent to MoFPI by the states or national level 
institutions o r organizations or partner institutions.  
4. Capacity Building & Training:  
 
The PMFME Scheme under the Capacity Building component could provide training for 
the following categories of persons: 
 Individual micro -food processing enterprises with credi t linked grant under the 
Scheme 
 Individual existing micro -food processing enterprises that are n ot taking loan under 
the Scheme 
 Workers of micro -food processing enterprises and groups, such as 
SHGs/FPOs/Cooperatives 
 Members of SHGs/FPOs/Cooperatives that are engaged in food processing activities 
 Government officials and other resources person engaged in the implementation of 
the PMFME Scheme- Training of Orientation of the Scheme.