--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C33
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 27
Word Range: 9505 - 9754
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 27]
22
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 
3. Sideways Linkages: Sideways linkages are mostly derived from the use of by 
products and waste products of the main base industrial activity. For example: many 
food processing industries using agriculture raw materials produce waste that can be 
used further in production of fuel, bio -fuels, paper pulp and fertilizer. The production 
of sugar results in production of molasses as a waste product, which is used by the 
alcohol brewing industry in the production of ethanol. 
Different stages of Development in Food Processing Industry 
1. The Initial Stage/Less Developed Countries:  
 Industrial processing of agricultural products tends to be limited to a few 
export crops 
 Upstream processing industries prevail in their more primitive form, such as 
rice & flour milling 
 An example of this stage would also be the plantation economy, where agro -
industry & primary agriculture appears as a vertically integrated activity. 
 Food processing in the early stages of development can be an important direct 
complement to agriculture as a source of employment for seasonal labor. 
 
2. The Intermediate Stage/Middle Income Countries 
 The intermediate stage of development of Food Processing Industry is 
characterized by some more sophisticated downstream industrial activities, but 
where off-farm employment, nevertheless remains the industry’s main engine 
of growth. 
 In this stage, the presence of a well - developed food processing industry 
ensures stronger links with sectors other than agriculture, both as providers of 
inputs (chemicals, glass, aluminum  and paper) and as dependent sectors of 
further processing (marketing services). 
 
3. The More Advanced Middle-Income Stage 
 This stage is characterized by full development of the forward linkage chain, 
with several marketing and other services incorporated in the final product 
and product innovation prevailing over process innovation to provide a 
competitive advantage and sources of growth to the firms in the market. 
 
seller of the goods but they could be an organization acting on their behalf because exporters 
generate their revenues from selling into wider domestic and international markets and 
generates income independent of the performance of the local economy. 
2.4. Economic Linkage Effects of Food Processing Industry 
Linkages are one of the essential feature of the industry. It is a phenomenon which measures 
the capability of an industry to generate demand for the products of the other industries.  
There are three types of linkages:  
1. Forward Linkage: It is when, the establishment of a processing industry can lead to 
the development and establishment of the number of advanced stage industries.  For 
example, manufacturing of paper, paper bags, footwear and leather goods. 
 
 
 
2. Backward Linkage: The feedback effects generated by a base industry on the development 
of the base sector is called backward linkage. The development of the food processing 
industry has many feedback effects on the agriculture sector itself. For example, once a food 
processing industry is established, it results in increasing the demand of raw materials 
provided by the agriculture sector. The establishment of processing facilities is itself an 
essential first step towards stimul ating both consumer demand for the processed product and 
an adequate supply of the raw material.  
 
 
 
 
 
Establishment upstream and 
downstream industries. Like 
Food Beverages, Juices etc. 
 
Increase demand of 
Marketing, Advertisement and 
other associated industries. 
 
The result of all these will be 
increase in employment 
generation. 
 
Increase in income and 
growth of the economy 
 
Food Processing 
Industry 
 
 
Increase Demand 
for Raw Materials 
 
 
 
Farmers produces more to meet the 
demand and Agriculture Production 
increases 
 
 
 In the process, farm 
labor becomes more 
productive 
 
 
 
Finally, wages and 
profits of the farmer 
increases. 
 
 
 
Farmer’s income increases and 
with increase in income, rural 
demand for the industrial product 
also increases 
. 
 
 
 
Base Food 
Processing Industry.