--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C29
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 25
Word Range: 8425 - 8674
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 25]
20
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
candidates for Panchayat Pradhan’s or representatives to Panchayati Raj Institution 
(PRI). 
2.3.2 What is FORWARD LINKAGE?  
The interconnection of an Industry to other Industries to which it sells its Outputs. It refers to 
the consolidating the chain from processing industries to market or directly towards the 
consumers. This is called Forward Linkage. It is when, the establishment of a processing 
industry can lead to the development and establishing the number of advanced stage 
industries. For Example; Forest Industry, it is established as a base industry which results in 
establishment of vast number of advanced processing industries like manufacturing of paper, 
paper bags, stationary, boxes made of paper, cartons, wooden boxes and vice versa. There are 
many other examples such as products of vegetable oils and rubber which are used in a wide 
variety of manufacturing industries of footwear, leather goods and vice versa. 
2.3.2.1 Who is WHOLESALER? 
A wholesaler is a company or individual that purchases great quantities of products from 
manufacturers, farmers, other producers, and vendors and selling them to the distributers. 
They play the main role to improve the supply chain efficiency, which helps manufacturers 
and distributors reach end users more effectively. Today's wholesalers serve as an extended 
warehouse for distributors, granting access to numerous lines of products from national 
suppliers. They can also be retailers and manufacturers. For example, General Mills produces 
various foods, including cereal. They then distribute cereal to grocery stores that sell goods to 
the end-user. In this case, General Mills is both the manufacturer and the wholesaler. 
2.3.2.2 Who is RETAILER? 
While a wholesaler sells goods to the businesses, as they purchase goods to sell it further. On 
the other hand, a retailer targets final consumer and sells goods to them. In this way, these 
two business forms are one of the important intermediaries of the marketing channel. It 
ordinarily involves the selling of individual units or small lots to large numbers of customers 
by a business set up for that specific purpose. The work of the retailer is to deliver the goods 
to the customer. They receive the goods from wholesalers and producers at reduced prices 
and then sell them at an affordable price to the consumer. 
2.3.2.3 Who is EXPORTER? 
The exporter is the person or company that is authorized by customs and government 
authorities to send goods from one country into another. They may or may not be the actual 
 
 Financial discipline: The members of the SHGs are encouraged to open savings 
accounts in banks. This assures improved living conditions, increased spending 
on education, health, etc. 
Challenges of Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 Lack of knowledge  and proper orientation among SHG -members to take up suitable 
and profitable livelihood options. 
 Patriarchal mind set – primitive thinking and social obligations discourages women 
from participating in SHGs thus limiting their economic avenues. 
 Lack of rural banking facilities – There are about 1.2 lakh bank branches and over 6 
lakh villages. Moreover , many public sector banks and micro -finance institutions are 
unwilling to provide financial services  to the poor as the cost of servicing remains 
high. 
 Sustainability and the quality of operations of the SHGs have been a matter of 
considerable debate. 
 No Security – The SHGs work on mutual trust and confidence of the members. The 
deposits of the SHGs are not secured or safe. 
 Only a minority of the Self -Help Groups are able to raise themselves from a level of 
micro-finance to that of micro-entrepreneurship. 
Opportunities in Self Help Groups (SHGs) 
 SHGs often appear to be instrumental in rural poverty alleviation. 
 Economic empowerment through  SHGs, provides women the confidence for 
participation in decision making affairs at the household -level as well as at 
the community-level. 
 Un-utilised and underutilised resources of the community can be mobilised effectively 
under different SHG-initiatives. 
 Leaders and members of successful SHGs bear the potentiality to act as resource 
persons for different community developmental initiatives. 
 Active involvement in different SHG -initiatives helps members to grow  leadership-
skills. Evidences also show that often women SHG leaders are chosen as potential