--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C50
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 36
Word Range: 14106 - 14452
Word Count: 347
--------------------

[Page 36]
31
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 Support to individual SHG members as a single unit  of food pro cessing 
industry with credit linked grant @35% with the maximum amount being Rs 10 
lakh.  
 Support for capital investment  at the federation of SHG level, with credit 
linked grant @35%. The maximum limit of grant in such cases would be as 
prescribed.  
 Training  & Handholding Support to SHGs:  For support to SHGs, a large 
number of trained resource persons are available with State Rural Livelihood 
Missions (SRLMs). These local resource persons of SRLM having expertise in 
agro -produce would be utilized for training , upgradation of units, DPR 
preparation, handholding support, etc.  
2. Seed Capital t o SHG: Seed capital @ Rs. 40,000/ - per SHG member would be 
provided to those engaged in food processing for working capital and purchase 
of small tools. Priority would be give n for SHGs involved in ODOP produce in 
giving seed capital. Seed capital as a grant would be provided to the SHG 
federation which, in turn, would be extended to members as a loan through the 
SHGs. The SHG federation would provide this amount as a loan to t he members 
of SHGs to be repaid to the SHG.  Eligibility Criteria for Seed Capital for SHGs:  
1. Only SHG members that are presently engaged in food processing would be 
eligible.  
2. The SHG member has to commit to utilize this amount for working capital and 
purchase of small tools and give a commitment in this regard to the SHG and SHG 
federation.  
3. Before providing the seed capital, SHG Federation should collect the following 
basic details for each of the members:  
 Details of the product being processed;  
 Other activities undertaken  
 Annual turnover  
 Source of raw mat erials and marketing of produce  
 
3. Common Infrastructure: Common infrastructure support would be provided to FPOs, 
SHGs, cooperatives, any Government agency, or private enterprises. Common 
infrastructure created under the PM FME scheme should also be available for other