--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C19
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 19
Word Range: 5509 - 5871
Word Count: 363
--------------------

[Page 19]
14
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
In a simple way, we can say, that a farmer grows the food and transforms it into a specific 
ingredient. Then, a manufacturer processes the ingredients and packag e them before sending 
them out to distributors. From there, th e distributors sell the food to consumers and 
restaurants, who ultimately eat and consume the food at the end of the chain.  There are few 
new technologies which makes the Supply chain process easier and effective. They are: 
2.2. Some of the Applications of New Technologies in Food Supply Chain 
1. Cloud-Based Communication 
With cloud-based communication, there’s no more reliance on in -person meetings and 
consistent scheduled interaction with each person within the supply chain. When your 
communication is cloud-based, you can lay out the guidelines of each process, making it easy 
for staff, executives, and other professionals involved in the chain to understand their part and 
responsibilities. 
This allows for real -time data exchanges that can help you make important decisions on 
inventory, procedures, and transportation. With this constant communication, all links in the 
supply chain can mitigate problems quickly and m ake choices based on accurate and updated 
data throughout every step in the process. 
2. Inventory Systems 
An efficient inventory system within supply chain management is crucial to profitability. 
Taking advantage of the latest technologies in inventory system s, such as automated 
inventory counts and order tracking, helps ensure you have the most accurate and updated 
numbers at all times. With access to inventory numbers and statistics at the touch of a button, 
supply chain management is quick and reliable. 
2.3. Understanding the Backward Linkages and Forward Linkages 
It is really important to understand that What is Backward Linkages and Forward 
Linkages? 
These linkages involve the sale of goods and services from one business to another and are 
often the most efficient way of ensuring that the supply chain is working. 
 
manufacturing plants.   To understand each  step in bringing food to someone’s table can 
generate a better idea of how to tackle certain problems and ensure that more people gain 
access to food. 
How It Works? 
A food supply chain or network is an end -to-end logistics integration that regulates the food 
supply’s working and assures robust management. The food supply chain network begins 
from the input supplier integrating a chain for end -to-end fulfilment. The input supplier 
sources the commodities for the integration through inventory management, transport, and 
storage, followed by distribution to the  end-users. The network of the food supply chain 
differs from the cold chain management, as the requirement varies for storage, transport, and 
distribution. However, several channels play an integral role in determining the syst em’s 
efficiency apart from that the forecasting, planning, and consumer behaviour. These channels 
significantly impact the supply chain’s working dynamics and work on the newly introduced 
concept of valued integration of supply chains. According to this concept, the supply chain 
management companies in India understand the system from the perspective of the end -user, 
analyse from the demand -pull approach, and consistently make an effort to encourage 
innovation and development in the food supply chain and networking.  It is essential to  
understand the working dynamics of the food supply networks while entering the business 
and arranging a fully functional end -to-end supply chain integration; it is also important to 
source the arrangement from top supply chain companies in India. 
 
Fig: Flow Process of Food Supply Chain