--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 3085 - 3425
Word Count: 341
--------------------

[Page 13]
8
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
E. Fisheries and Sea Food  
India is the third largest fish produc er in 
the world and second largest in inland 
fish production. The fisheries sector 
contributes US$ 4.4 billion to the national 
income, which is about 1.4% of the total 
GDP. With its over 8,000 km of coastline, 
3 million hectares of reservoirs, 1.4 
million hectares of brackish water, 50,600 
sq. km of continental shelf area and 2.2 million sq . km of exclusive economic zone (EEZ). 
India is endowed with rich fishery resources and has vast potential for fishes from both inland 
and marine resources. The processing of fish into canned and frozen forms is carried out 
almost entirely for the export ma rket. It is widely felt that India’s substantial fishery 
resources are under -utilized and there is tremendous potential to increase the output of this 
sector. The units in the fish processing sector are largely small scale proprietary/ partnership 
firms or fishermen co-operatives. In the past ten years, the corporate sector has increased its 
operations in preservation, processing and export of coastal fish. 
1.4Key Growth Drivers of Food Processing Sector in India 
In the aftermath of the pandemic, consumers have grown extremely conscious of their fitness 
and health, and demand organic, low -calorie or fat -free, natural or low preservatives in their 
processed food, along with convenient RTE products. Following are some of the trends to 
follow in food industry: 
 
 
 
C. Milk and Milk Products 
India has the largest livestock population in 
terms of cows and buffaloes and world’s largest 
milk producer i.e., 221.06 million tonnes 
annually. In this sector, most of the processing is 
done by the unorganized sector and consumption 
of liquid milk accounts for 46% of the total 
production. Though the share of organized 
sector is less than 15%, and it is expected to rise 
rapidly, especially in the urban regions. Among 
the milk products manufactured by the organized sector, some of the prominent ones are 
ghee, butter, cheese, ice creams, milk powders, malted milk food, condensed milk and infant 
foods. Few corporate players, i ncluding Multi -National Corporations are now focusing on 
this market. For example, Nestle and Britannia have forayed into emerging segments such as 
Ultra Heated Treatment (UHT) and flavoured milk. Ultra Heat Treated (UHT) milk is 
becoming popular and the market is estimated at US$ 33.4 million (Rs1.5 billion). 
D. Grain Processing 
India produces more than 315.7 million tonnes of 
different food grains every year with a 40% share 
in food sector. The major grains such as rice, 
wheat, maize, barley, and millets li ke jowar 
(great millet), bajra (pearl millet), &ragi (finger 
millet) are produced in the country. Most of the 
operations of this industry are rural based and 
shares the 96% of the total value of production in 
primary processing sector. About 15% of the ann ual production of wheat is converted into 
wheat products. There are 10,000 pulse mills in the country with a milling capacity of 14 
million tonnes, in which milling is done about 75% of annual pulse production. The country 
is self-sufficient in grain production and is the second largest rice producer in the world with 
a 20% of global share. The primary milling of rice, wheat, and pulses is the most important 
activity in food grains processing.