--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C41
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 31
Word Range: 11645 - 11894
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 31]
26
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
with effect from 01.04.2021 with provision for committed liabilities for ongoing 
projects only and 23 mega food parks are operational. 
2. Integrated Cold Chain and Value Addition Infrastructure:  The objective of the 
Scheme of “Integrated Cold Chain and Value Addition Infrastructure” is to provide 
integrated cold chain and preservation infrastructure facilities, without any break, from 
the farm gate to the consumer. It covers creation of infrastructure facility along the 
entire supply chain viz. pre-cooling, weighing, sorting, grading, waxing facilities at farm 
level, multi product/multi temperature cold storage, CA storage, packing facility, IQF, 
blast freezing in the distribution hub and reefer vans, mobile cooling units for 
facilitating distribution of non -horticulture, horticulture, fish/ marine ( except shrimp), 
dairy, meat and poultry. The scheme allows flexibility in project planning with special 
emphasis on creation of cold chain infrastructure at farm level. The scheme is u nder 
implementation since 2008. 
3. Agro-Processing Clusters: The scheme aims at development of modern infrastructure 
and common facilities to encourage group of entrepreneurs to set up food processing 
units based on cluster approach by linking groups of produ cers/ farmers to the 
processors and markets through well -equipped supply chain with modern infrastructure. 
Each agro processing clusters under the scheme have two basic components i.e. Basic 
Enabling Infrastructure (roads, water supply, power supply, drain age, ETP etc.), Core 
Infrastructure/ Common facilities (ware houses, cold storages, IQF, tetra pack, sorting, 
grading etc.) and at least 5 food processing units with a minimum investment of Rs. 25 
crores. The units are set up simultaneous along with creati on of common infrastructure. 
At least 10 acres of land is required to be arranged either by purchase or on lease for at 
least 50 years for setting up of Agro Processing Cluster. 
4. Human Resources and Institutions:  The objectives of the scheme is to provide sector 
specific skilled workforce from floor level workers, operators, packaging and assembly 
line workers to quality control supervisor etc. in the various segments of food 
processing industries and contribute towards achieving the projected skill ed human 
resources requirement as envisaged by National Skill Development Corporation 
(NSDC) in food processing sector i.e. 17.8 million persons by the year 2022. 
Apart from implementation of the Skill component under PMKSY, a number of 
initiatives have been taken by GOI to address the skill gap in the food processing sector. 
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries is working in close collaboration with other 
related agencies to augment skilled manpower in the food processing sector. The 
 
3.1.1 PMKSY (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampda Yojana)  
 
 PM Kisan SAMPADA Yojana (PMKSY) was envisaged as a comprehensive package which 
will result in creation of modern infrastructure with efficient supply chain management from 
farm gate to retail outlet. It will not only provide a big boost to the growth of food processing 
sector in the country but also help in providing better returns to farmers and is a big step 
towards doubling of farmer’s income, creating huge employment opportunities especially in 
the rural areas, reducing wastage of agricultural produce, increasing the processin g level and 
enhancing the export of the processed foods.  The PMKSY had seven component schemes. 
They are as follows: 
1. Mega Food Parks: The Scheme of Mega Food Park aims at providing a mechanism to 
link agricultural production to the market by bringing toget her farmers, processors and 
retailers so as to ensure maximizing value addition, minimizing wastage, increasing 
farmer’s income and creating employment opportunities particularly in rural sector. The 
Mega Food Park Scheme is based on “Cluster” approach and  envisages creation of state 
of art support infrastructure in a well -defined agri / horticultural zone for setting up of 
modern food processing units in the industrial plots provided in the park with well -
established supply chain. Mega food park typically consists of supply chain 
infrastructure including collection centres’, primary processing centres’, central 
processing centres’, cold chain and around 25-30 fully developed plots for entrepreneurs 
to set up food processing units. The scheme has been discon tinued by the Government