--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C23
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 22
Word Range: 6757 - 7119
Word Count: 363
--------------------

[Page 22]
17
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
 They are open to all persons who are able to use their services and willing to accept 
the responsibilities of membership, without gender, social, racial, political or religious 
discrimination. 
 FPOs operatives provide education and training for their farmer -members, elected 
representatives, managers, and employees so that they can contribute effectively to 
the development of their FPOs. 
 FPOs in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and some other states 
have shown encouraging results and have been able to realise higher returns for their 
produce. 
For example, tribal women in the Pali district of Rajasthan fo rmed a producer company and 
they are getting higher prices for custard apples. 
2.3.1.2 SELF HELP GROUP 
According to the latest statistics, about 25% of the Indian population belongs to the rural 
poor. Women make up one- third of the Indian labour force. However, social constraints have 
prevented them from having access to and making use of the available resources that may help 
them improve their living conditions. Self Help Group is seen by many as the catalyst for rural 
development, women, and social empowerment. Its importance in the Indian economy is seen 
through many success stories like the production of 13 different bio agents to support organic 
farming by Sabari Swasraya Sanghom of Nellarachal tribal hamlet, Kudumbashree SHG, etc. 
They are not only inspirational but also the obvious solutions to the  existing socio-economic 
problems of India. 
Let’s See What Are Self Help Groups (SHGs)? 
 It is an informal associations of people who choose to come together to find ways to 
improve their living conditions.  
 It can be defined as self-governed, peer controlled information group of people with 
similar socio-economic background and having a desire to collectively perform 
common purpose. 
 Villages face numerous problems related to poverty, illiteracy, lack of skills, lack of 
formal credit etc. These problems cannot be tackled at an individual level and need 
collective efforts. 
 Thus SHG can become a vehicle of change for the poor and marginalized. It relies on 
the notion of “Self Help” to encourage self-employment and poverty alleviation.