--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-102-C38
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-102
Page Range: Page 29 to Page 30
Word Range: 10862 - 11111
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 29]
24
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
Chapter 3 
Various Government Schemes supporting food processing enterprises 
 
INTRODUCTION  
A strong and dynamic food processing sector plays a vital role in reduction in the wastage of 
perishable agricultural produce, enhancing shelf life of food products, ensuring value addition 
to agricultural produce, diversification &commercialization of agriculture, generation of 
employment, enhancing income of farmers and creating surplus for the export of agro & 
processed foods. In the era of economic liberalization, all segments including; private,  public 
and co -operative sectors have defined roles to play and the Ministry promotes their active 
participation. 
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries  (MOFPI) has a clear goal of attaining these 
objectives by facilitating and acting as a catalyst to attract quality investments from within 
India and abroad into this sector with the aim of making food processing a national initiative. 
With this overall objective, the Ministry aims to: 
 Enhance farmer's inco me by better utilization and value addition of 
agricultural produce. 
 Minimize wastage at all stages in the food processing chain by the 
development of infrastructure for storage, transportation and processing of 
agro-food produce. 
 Introduce of modern techn ology into the food processing industries from bot h 
domestic and external sources. 
 Encourage R&D in food processing for product and process dev elopment and 
improved packaging. 
 Provide policy support, and support for creation of Infrastructure, capacity 
expansion/ Upgradation and other supportive measures form the growth of this 
sectors. 
 Promote export of processed food products. 
3.1 Various Schemes of MoFPI 
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MOFPI) has introduced various schemes 
for the benefit of small scale industries, farmers, agriculture sector and vice versa. The 
Schemes are as follows: 
 
 The linkage with the marketing chain tends to be well established, with both 
organizational & financial links between the producers and retail outlets. The 
pace at which new products are introduced is extremely high and this testifies 
to the importance of product innovation in this phase of industry cycle. 
2.5. Opportunities in Food Processing Sector 
1. Indian consumers are rapidly changing their eating habits. Trends indicate a sharp 
increase in on-the go eating, snacking in between meals, switching to healthier eating 
alternatives, pre -cooked ready to eat meals and increasing consumption of organic 
foods. This has led to a host of new opportunities in the consumer foods market for 
both domestic and international companies to build a stake in this fast  growing 
processed food market.  
2.  While there are several companies entering the market, the sector is largely untapped 
given the low per capita consumption levels and the dramatic changes occurring in the 
Indian lifestyle.  
3.  India is also being developed and nurtured to become a global o utsourcing hub for 
food processing because of its strategic location which connects to various export 
market destinations. There has been a steady improvement in the infrastructure 
available to establish Agri Export Zones (AEZ) in the country. 
4.  In the last  few years the MFPI has funded the development of various Mega Food 
Park projects. The ‘Make in India’ campaign has established more than 40 Mega Food 
Parks (MFP) and also provided fundamental infrastructure to operationalize new 
companies rapidly. The est imated investment by the government in this initiative for 
FPS so far has been more than USD 2 billion. 
Future Prospects 
Food Processing Industry in India is increasingly seen as a potential source for driving the 
rural economy as it brings about synergy b etween the consumer, industry and agriculture. 
Ministry of food processing has a vision to become food factory of the world by 2025, when 
the level of processing would be 20% from the present one of merely 8%. The growth of the 
food processing industry is crucial for greater social and economic development of the 
country, considering it is the first organized linkage between the farm and shelf. This is 
particularly relevant in an emerging country like India, where equitable growth is a primary 
concern for the government.

[Page 30]
25
MODULE 1 - INTRODUCTION TO FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR
COMPILED AND PREPARED FOR PMFME BENEFICIARY TRAINING
 
3.1.1 PMKSY (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampda Yojana)  
 
 PM Kisan SAMPADA Yojana (PMKSY) was envisaged as a comprehensive package which 
will result in creation of modern infrastructure with efficient supply chain management from 
farm gate to retail outlet. It will not only provide a big boost to the growth of food processing 
sector in the country but also help in providing better returns to farmers and is a big step 
towards doubling of farmer’s income, creating huge employment opportunities especially in 
the rural areas, reducing wastage of agricultural produce, increasing the processin g level and 
enhancing the export of the processed foods.  The PMKSY had seven component schemes. 
They are as follows: 
1. Mega Food Parks: The Scheme of Mega Food Park aims at providing a mechanism to 
link agricultural production to the market by bringing toget her farmers, processors and 
retailers so as to ensure maximizing value addition, minimizing wastage, increasing 
farmer’s income and creating employment opportunities particularly in rural sector. The 
Mega Food Park Scheme is based on “Cluster” approach and  envisages creation of state 
of art support infrastructure in a well -defined agri / horticultural zone for setting up of 
modern food processing units in the industrial plots provided in the park with well -
established supply chain. Mega food park typically consists of supply chain 
infrastructure including collection centres’, primary processing centres’, central 
processing centres’, cold chain and around 25-30 fully developed plots for entrepreneurs 
to set up food processing units. The scheme has been discon tinued by the Government