--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 3465 - 3741
Word Count: 277
--------------------

[Page 4]
1060 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
ﬁts-all solution. Consequently, the lack of standardisation and
lack of industry-level action are obstacles in the ﬁght against
modern slavery (Fudge and McCann, 2015).
2.2 Blockchain as a Solution to Supply Chain
T ransparency
In recent years, blockchain has been promoted as a tool for
supply chain transparency at a systemic level. Since 2018,
OSCM scholarship has argued that it can be used to enact sys-
temic solutions to sustainability while easing transaction costs
(Saberi et al., 2018; Treiblmaier, 2018).
A blockchain is a distributed system for capturing and
storing a consistent, immutable linear event log of transac-
tions (ledger) between networked actors (Queiroz et al., 2019).
There are certain key principles that deﬁne a blockchain. First,
the information control is decentralised: every piece of infor-
mation is broadcast to all other nodes, meaning that there is no
need for a central authority to approve transactions. Second,
the identity behind transactions is protected, and authenti-
cation is conducted by nodes of the network, providing a
combination of transparency and conﬁdentiality. Third, once
a transaction is included in the blockchain, it becomes almost
impossible to alter the ledger. Fourth, it is possible to write
programs, that is, smart contracts, which deﬁne what needs to
be checked for a transaction to be conﬁrmed and registered
(Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016).
First adopted by the ﬁnancial markets, blockchain had been
discussed in other industries as well, such as pharmaceutical
products, containers, wood and food. Blockchain applications
can also include real-time monitoring supported by technolo-
gies like radio frequency, global positioning systems and inter
of things, all of which allow tracking goods in real time and
knowing who is performing what in various sectors (e.g., con-
tainer or supplier monitoring) (Kshetri, 2018). Blockchain
applications can use smart contracts to reduce friction (i.e.,
transaction costs) and support peer-to-peer and collective bar-
gaining (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016).
Further, it has been posited that blockchain can ease trans-
action costs (Saberi et al., 2018) or even eliminating such
costs completely (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016). For exam-
ple, blockchain applications can serve as a reputation sys-
tem that replaces fraudulent rating systems, thus allowing
ﬁrms to establish the trustworthiness of suppliers (Efanov and
Roschin, 2018). Studies suggest that blockchain can not only
reduce the effort and the number of intermediates but also
the time needed to monitor suppliers. In addition, smart con-
tracts can increase the level of automation in the signing of
buyer–supplier contracts (Shermin, 2017). Beyond transac-
tion costs, it has been argued that blockchain can address core
challenges studied in OSCM research: diminishing the bull-
whip effect, improving integration and offering scalability to
logistics monitoring, all of these particularly useful for multi-
tier structures (Agrawal et al., 2021). For example, it might
help in avoiding situations like the infamous Chipotle food
contamination case, where the lack of ability to monitor sup-
pliers in real time made it impossible to prevent the breaching
of quality standards (Kshetri, 2018).
Ultimately, blockchain could be the key to scalable sup-
ply chain transparency. Supply chain transparency can include
data about employees clocking in and out of a factory to
gauge whether the factory is complying with labour regula-
tions (Stevenson, 2022). Blockchain has been presented as
the twenty-ﬁrst century’s ‘shop-lifting camera’, which com-
bines three elements: traceability, decentralisation of data
collection/validation, and breach-proof conﬁdentiality (Sher-
min, 2017). Such technology is well suited to complex sup-
ply networks. However, there few empirical studies have
addressed the impact of blockchain on social issues in the sup-
ply chain (Pournader et al., 2019). Thus, questions remain:
Could blockchains replace traditional monitoring schemes
(Greve et al., 2010)? Could this technology reduce miscon-
duct in supply chains in a frictionless manner (low transaction
costs)?
In contrast to the overwhelming positive appraisals of
blockchain, recent studies by Murray et al. (2021) and Pun
et al. (2021) have focused on governance and implementation
costs, which are neglected by most researchers. Governance
costs are related to data security issues and the ‘oracle prob-
lem’. Data security costs reﬂect additional controls for emer-
gent blockchain solutions before achieving scale/trust of all
involved actors. Fears related to data security give rise to pre-
emptive efforts to avoid errors resulting from removing human
discretion. When blockchain usage leads to a dispute between
two parties, the need for third-party arbitration may lead to
extra costs. Oracle costs refer to impartial third-party experts
who are hired to design smart contracts and/or assess data
quality (Murray et al., 2021). Thus, such governance costs,
most salient during implementation, offer trade-offs to trans-
action costs. Ignoring these costs may lead to misjudgements
in cost analyses (Pun et al., 2021) and disappointment when
inﬂated expectations are not met (Sodhi et al., 2022).
2.3 Decoupling as a Reaction to Supply Chain
T ransparency
Besides misjudging unforeseen costs, it is likely that
blockchain-based initiatives for improving supply chain trans-
parency may face resistance. For example, ﬁrms may resist the
disclosure of their supply chains (Doorey, 2011), the emerg-
ing technologies and the change that they provoke (Sodhi
et al., 2022), and the greater fairness that may result from
transparency (Chen et al., 2022). One particular form of organ-
isational resistance to new policies increasingly discussed in
the OSCM ﬁeld is decoupling (Nath et al., 2020).
The foundations of decoupling date back to the 1970s.
W eick (1976, p. 4) stated that ‘intentions are a poor guide
for action, intentions often follow rather than precede action,
and that intentions and action are loosely coupled’. Meyer and
Rowan (1977) framed decoupling as a thoughtful disconnec-
tion between organisational structures aiming at legitimacy