--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 8755 - 10728
Word Count: 1,974
--------------------

[Page 11]
Marques et al. 1067
would be natural to expect them to gladly collaborate). Never-
theless, the ﬁeldwork revealed unease on the part of suppliers
regarding the lack of standardisation of the audit schemes.
Suppliers complained that they needed to work with multi-
ple fashion brands to ease demand instability and seasonality
while also having to comply with different audit schemes.
For example, each scheme could frame the same problem as
minor or major. As a result, one fashion brand might demand
immediate action, while another would shift its attention to a
different issue, accumulating requests for adaptation.
An example of this is immigrant work. Manager T1A1
was emphatic in telling us that his Paraguayan employee was
always the one to be requested for an interview during audits
from one fashion brand, while another fashion brand would
leave this aside and focus on capacity management to avoid
quarteirização (when tier-2 suppliers outsource to informal
tier-3 suppliers). If this were true, the project could reduce fric-
tion and audit burdens. Therefore, besides addressing the pains
of each stakeholder in the supply chain, we also aimed to pro-
duce a solution strongly grounded in the Association’s audit
scheme to increase homogeneity and ease supplier adoption.
By the end of this phase, there was a mix of excitement
with what the blockchain could provide and concerns over the
emerging governance costs. To what extent could something as
complex as blockchain technology be incorporated as an easy-
to-use solution for shopﬂoor workers? Clearly, the technology
angle of the socio-technical problem outweighed the tensions
related to governance and transparency that started to surface.
4.3 Phase 3. Pilot T esting (And Decoupling as
Resistance to T ransparency)
In the following six months, the start-up developed the beta
version of the mobile app survey. W e conducted another group
workshop with both focal ﬁrms to capture their feedback, and
in parallel we planned and executed the second ﬁeldwork tour,
with the goal of testing the mobile app survey with 300–400
workers across all suppliers participating in the project.
By the time we started scheduling the second ﬁeldwork,
the growing pressure of the audit schemes had affected our
project. The suppliers found it inconsistent that brands kept
pressuring them for lower prices and tighter deadlines while
increasing auditing demands. Audit schemes were voluntary
for brands but compulsory for suppliers once the brands they
supplied opted in. W e soon realised that our project was con-
sidered part of the growing audit workload. At this stage,
the consequences of the unfair purchasing practices that had
become the norm in the industry began to emerge.
From the suppliers’ perspective, the demand variation
imposed by the fashion brands (when postponing and can-
celling orders without prior notice) was a driver of working
condition instability, which could in turn increase the chances
of workers responding incorrectly to the survey. Suppliers
complained about fashion brands’ purchasing policies: can-
celling purchasing orders quite frequently and on short notice
while establishing harsh penalties for any delays: ‘ What can-
not happen is a late delivery. If you delay delivery, you pay a
1 % penalty fee. If the delay accounts for more than 5 % of the
total, the penalty fee increases to 5 % ’ (Manager T1A1).
Suppliers could not offer job security to workers with-
out demand stability. Moreover, they emphasised that such
unfair purchasing practices were spread across the industry.
Tier-1 suppliers felt squeezed between price pressure and
rigorous audit schemes. Once again, immigrant work was a
salient issue. Bolivians were described as more productive
than Brazilians but harder to tame into audit requirements:
‘Before fashion brands started (to care about) social respon-
sibility, audits, all those things, I had 26 sewing cells with
Bolivians. One day, I approached them to say the business
would change. Only ﬁve accepted and 21 have left’. [ ...] ‘ T h e
fact is that Bolivians sew like no one else, which impacted my
efﬁciency. While they can produce 10 difﬁcult pieces, Brazil-
ians can produce only one. However, their health standards do
not go according to the audit schemes’. (Manager T1A1)
Focal ﬁrm pressure on tier-1 suppliers often led to tier-1
pressure on tier-2 suppliers, cascading unfair purchasing prac-
tices to the weaker links in the supply chain. Even the tier-1
suppliers that avoided ‘ letting their sewing cells down ’ even-
tually had to cascade postponements/cancellations. It became
obvious that the lack of long-term contracts was, in fact, a
common practice. Suppliers felt that they were constantly ‘ in
the dark’, ‘holding the bull by the horn’ , and facing ﬁnancial
struggles: ‘Last year , I had no service for a full week. (...)B u t
then I still need to pay the workers to stay at home. And that
is the problem. There’s no way I can handle this. Last year we
stayed in the red [negative bank account] the full year because
of that one week’ (Owner T2A11).
With little demand instability, tier-2 suppliers bounced
from one customer to the other, and as a result, informal
contracts were almost the norm: ‘ Actually, nobody has a con-
tract. It is all under word-of-mouth assurance. If you provide
a good service, you keep supplying ’ (Owner T2A11). Fre-
quently, instability led to lay-offs: ‘ Last year I had almost
30 workers, but ﬁve of them I had to. . . [making a gesture
at her throat to indicate lay-off without saying the word]’
(Owner T2A12). Demand instability thus had devastating con-
sequences on workers’ job security. Although this was clearly
the reality of the industry, the focal ﬁrms seemed to refrain
from acknowledging it.
As our speciﬁc intervention progressed, frustration turned
into resistance to our own initiative. Suppliers resisted further
participation, as they saw each visit as an extra burden. In
fact, it became clear that the focal ﬁrms were not adequately
informing the suppliers about the intervention goals, dura-
tions, and beneﬁts. The focal ﬁrms simply assumed that the
suppliers would participate, ‘outsourcing’ the role of engag-
ing suppliers to researchers who had no power or incentives
to offer. It felt as if the focal ﬁrms considered both tier-1

[Page 12]
1068 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
and tier-2 suppliers almost as their own property, while the
owners of the sewing cells obviously had a very different
view. Despite the workers’ receptivity, the suppliers them-
selves saw no beneﬁt and only an additional burden. W e were
supposed to survey 30 workers from each supplier during the
second ﬁeldwork tour, but we only visited half of the suppli-
ers, and we collected feedback from fewer than 10 workers
at each facility. As a result, instead of 360 responses, we
were left with 60 feedback points, most of them informal
and poorly registered due to time pressure to conclude the
visit.
In fact, although we aimed at developing a socio-technical
solution by improving quality/frequency while reducing trans-
action costs, we found that the very nature of purchasing
practices induced supplier instability and eventually could
elicit modern slavery. Most importantly, supplier resistance
sabotaged the project. Surprisingly, the focal ﬁrms seemed
to wish to enhance traceability without reconsidering their
own purchasing practices and their impact on supplier costs or
working conditions. Moreover, social and institutional dynam-
ics seemed to help ﬁrms rationalise their reasons for not
changing their purchasing practices, which were detrimental
to their supply base.
4.4 Phase 4. Project Interruption (And a Lesson
About the Status Quo)
Vignette 2: The gut punch of the status quo
January 14, 2020. Today is probably my last trip to São Paulo
funded by the project. T wo full years have passed since my
ﬁrst contact with NGO-A, approximately one year for the pro-
posal and another year for the intervention. After visiting a
candidate global retailer that could be interested in the project,
even though they raised multiple restrictions, and after my last
phone call with NGO-A and the start-up team at the hotel
room, I order a taxi while a feeling of frustration engulf me.
A project borne to transform the industry is about to die ...o r
at the very least, evolve into something that I did not dream of
when we started this journey . . .
It became clear that the intervention affected each stakeholder
in different ways, raising competing constraints that prevented
it from moving further from pilot to full implementation. The
truth is that governance costs to please all stakeholders take the
investment to a level where industry engagement is needed.
NGO-A has always told us that their initial investment was
‘seed money’ and that fashion brands’ buy-in was key to their
continued support. At the same time, fashion brands’ partic-
ipation came conditional on a focus on visibility (their own
control), thus delaying true transparency. As a result, NGO-
A’s interest was clearly fading away. NGO-B and Brand-B are
small players and have offered us all they had during the pilot
stage. They are eager to move ahead, as long as someone else
takes over the ﬁnancial burden. Last, but not least, the Associa-
tion has emphasised high heterogeneity across fashion brands.
Most are interested only in visibility, and even the front run-
ners seem to be waiting for the others to make the ﬁrst move.
This puts us in a vicious cycle, where everyone is waiting for
someone else to ‘open the dance ﬂoor’. As a result, there is no
dancing.
I ﬂy off from São Paulo to Rio de Janeiro not knowing this was
not only my last project trip but also my last trip to the fourth
largest city in the world for a long time (Covid-19 struck us
exactly two months after...)
During the last two months of the project, we had multi-
ple calls for combinatorial analysis with the start-up, NGOs,
brands, and the Association. W e ended up having more calls in
March 2020 (calls on 10 of 22 working days, sometimes more
than one per day) than at any other time in the project. Y et, no
concrete results came out of them. It became clear that fash-
ion brands were not yet suffering enough pressure to increase
transparency, as expressed by one brand manager: ‘ Have you
ever heard the phrase: Sweatshop is wrong unless the shoes
are cute?’ (Manager, Brand-A).
The project slowly entered fadeout mode. After March
2020, contacts with industry players revealed that our project
had inspired advancements in traceability but with no intent of
offering transparency to consumers and stakeholders. As this
research project concluded, true fashion supply chain trans-
parency is still non-existent in Brazil (or anywhere else, as far
as we are aware).
5 Discussion
5.1 Exposing the T rue Cost of Blockchain (RQ1)
W e begin the discussion by answering RQ1:To what extent can
blockchain reduce transaction costs while improving supply
chain transparency?
The fashion supply chain is dispersed and hard to control.
Focal ﬁrms often source from hundreds of tier-1 suppliers
that each employ dozens of sewing cells (tier-2 suppliers).
The further upstream one goes in the supply chain, the more
dispersed, and consequently, opaque, it becomes. Growing
pressures to improve control and transparency have led to audit
schemes that translate into transaction costs. A lack of trust
and redundance of controls (parallel audit schemes) further
add to transaction costs. Our intervention revealed that each
tier-2 sewing cell was usually visited monthly by its tier-1
suppliers and audited by each focal ﬁrm once per year. Fur-
ther, the national association also ran its own audit scheme,
again locally and once per year. As a result, one sewing cell
– that supplied to, for example, three focal ﬁrms – was likely
to be audited 16 times per year. However, the focal ﬁrms still
lacked control, while differences in audit schemes were over-
burdening suppliers. In response, tier-1 suppliers often acted