--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1961 - 2210
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
Marques et al. 1059
at the supplier (means–end decoupling) and at the focal ﬁrm
(policy–practice decoupling).
The Global South offers opportunities to research unstable
macroeconomic conditions and unique social issues (Aguinis
et al., 2020; Özkazanç-Pan, 2008). OSCM scholarship has so
far emphasised the misbehaviour of Global South suppliers
as the key cause of unsustainability (see: Asif, 2020; Vil-
lena, 2018) while proposing that Global North focal ﬁrms
are the ones responsible for changing the status quo (see:
Gold et al., 2013; Villena and Gioia, 2018). The predomi-
nant assumptions have ascribed power and autonomy to focal
ﬁrms while blaming weaker partners in the Global South
for risks related to greenwashing or modern slavery condi-
tions (Carmagnac et al., 2022; Glover and Touboulic, 2020).
Y et, (North)buyer–(South)supplier relationships are often dis-
guised as collaborative, even though they are actually detri-
mental to the supplier side (Chen et al., 2022). Moreover,
focal ﬁrm collaboration through third-party certiﬁcation can
‘fracture over time’, therefore ‘eroding’ trust in joint auditing
efforts (Benstead et al., 2018, p. 2307). The failure of supplier
audit schemes has often been used an excuse to support the vic-
timisation of focal ﬁrms (Parmigiani and Rivera-Santos, 2015;
Silvestre, 2015; Wu and Jia, 2018). Thus, our work offers a
critique of such dynamics, exposing focal ﬁrm liability for per-
petuating unfair purchasing practices that lead to decoupling
and modern slavery risk.
In the remainder of this article, we discuss the theoretical
background, followed by the methodology and the elements of
IBR. Next, we present the ﬁndings and discussion, including
ﬁve propositions. Finally, conclusions are provided along with
future research directions.
2 Theoretical Background
2.1 T ransaction Costs in Supply Chain T ransparency
Transaction costs include the costs of negotiating, implement-
ing and monitoring a focal ﬁrm’s supply contracts (Emery
and Marques, 2011). Transaction costs are driven by bounded
rationality and opportunism. The former assumes that cog-
nitive competence is a limited resource. Thus, transactions
that demand signiﬁcant cognitive capacity will tend to be
costly, and contracts will be incomplete (Williamson, 2008).
The latter assumes that economic actors pursuing self-interest
may engage in incomplete or distorted information disclosure
(McIvor, 2009). Bounded rationality and opportunism thus
increase transaction costs, which are barriers to market gov-
ernance. As noted by Lumineau and Oliveira (2020, p. 74),
‘if individuals never engaged in opportunistic behaviour, then
the market would sufﬁce for the mediation of all transactions’.
Therefore, focal ﬁrms tend to be attracted by alternatives,
such as those offered by new technology, which can alleviate
transaction costs.
Opportunistic behaviour and the associated transaction
costs that are incurred to prevent it from happening have
been widely discussed. Moreover, transaction cost theory has
become a top-of-mind lens in OSCM scholarship (Touboulic
and Walker, 2015b), which has expanded on the notions
of transaction costs from the dyad to discussing challenges
related to multitier supply chains (Meinlschmidt et al., 2018).
In the Global South context, research has emphasised insti-
tutional voids, that is, the lack of legislation enforcement,
mock compliance from suppliers and focal ﬁrms’ disregard for
supplier violations, all pointing towards supplier opportunism
(Huq and Stevenson, 2018). In 2020, Lumineau and Oliveira
(2020) called for an increased focus the study of opportunism
and for future research on new technologies (e.g., blockchain).
The authors also invited research on empirical contexts
beyond the US and Europe. The more complex the supply
chain, the higher the transaction costs will be to control suppli-
ers and the higher the information asymmetry, which prevents
the exposure of organisational misconduct. Information asym-
metry thus hinders public scrutiny and supports misconduct
(Marshall et al., 2016).
Fashion supply chains are particularly salient regarding
misconduct for two main reasons. First, misconduct is par-
ticularly hard to trace, given its complexity and dispersion,
and modern slavery often does not occur within the focal
ﬁrms’ direct purview but rather beyond the ﬁrst-tier suppli-
ers (Busse et al., 2016; Nath et al., 2020; Tachizawa and
W ong, 2015). Further, multi-sourcing is a common practice
in the fashion industry, and such strategies have been posited
as a way to conceal buyer misconduct (Kim et al., 2019).
Multi-sourcing accompanied by multitiered structures thus
concentrate the labour force in labour-intensive (tier-2) sewing
cells,
4 also called sweatshops to denote modern slavery. In
these sewing cells, which are mostly located in low-cost coun-
tries, informal arrangements prevail and fragile regulation
limits social control. Ultimately, supply network complexity
may result in a strain between the means and ends, which
may be used as justiﬁcations for inaction (Caruana et al.,
2020).
The second reason fashion supply chains are rife with mis-
conduct is the difﬁculty in deﬁning how unacceptable working
conditions must be to constitute modern slavery. Modern
slavery involves workers’ physical and mental conditions at
work (Christ et al., 2020). Even when freedom of move-
ment may be preserved, precarious working conditions may
constitute modern slavery (Kahya, 2007; Wiengarten et al.,
2021). Appendix 1 presents the associated terminologies (see:
e-companion).
Improving supply chain transparency to trace instances of
less-extreme versions of poor working conditions in supply
chains can reveal darker versions of forced labour, which are
the most difﬁcult to expose. Tracing modern slavery within
multitiered structures is a particular challenge (Busse et al.,
2016). The transaction costs of third-party audits are high,
even for large focal ﬁrms that resort to cooperation and
resource sharing in audit schemes (Benstead et al., 2021).
However, some large focal ﬁrms have developed their own
standards based on the argument that there is no one-size-