--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 9 to Page 10
Word Range: 6775 - 8754
Word Count: 1,980
--------------------

[Page 9]
Marques et al. 1065
validity (Stake, 1995). Method triangulation involved the com-
bination of participant observation and in-depth interviews,
semi-structured interviews, and document analysis. For data
triangulation, interviews were compiled with the same inter-
viewee at different points in time, allowing observation of the
same phenomenon at different locations. Finally, a post-project
review was performed with key participants, who were asked
to verify the data analysis and correspondence to reality. This
step included three interviews conducted by Researcher-C and
a ﬁnal online meeting with NGO-A and Brand-A, all of which
were conducted in early 2020.
4 Findings
This section is structured according to the four phases
described in Appendix 5 to highlight temporal bracketing. In
addition, we frame the ﬁrst and last phases (1 and 4) around
ﬁrst-person vignettes to embed the reader in the data analysis
and reﬂections. Conversely, we have organised the intermedi-
ate phases (2 and 3) around raw quotes, with the intention of
providing direct access to raw data and nuances of speeches
across workers, suppliers, brands, NGOs, and association rep-
resentatives. In other words, we offer a journey that starts
and ends with the narrator’s voice (Researcher-A), with the
original voices presented between.
4.1 Phase 1. Project Setup (and Behind-the-Scenes
Access)
On December 22, 2017, Researcher-A received a compliment
from an old friend on social media. She had moved from Rio
de Janeiro to São Paulo a few years before, and they had lost
contact. She had become a manager at NGO-A, which funds
projects to improve supply chain transparency. A ﬁrst meet-
ing via Skype happened on January 31, 2018, and as a result,
Researcher-A joined a project to conduct an intervention to
test the extent to which blockchain could help improve sup-
ply chain transparency. After attending a couple of meetings
in May 2018, Researcher-A became the project manager and
received an initial grant to develop a 12-month project for 2019
(while travelling between Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo). In the
following months, the project team decided to focus solely on
working conditions and modern slavery and visited one tier-1
and one tier-2 supplier of Brand-A.
Vignette 1: The gut punch of reality behind the scenes.
July 17, 2018. Today, I visited a ‘pilot supply chain’, start-
ing with Brand-A’s headquarters, followed by a direct supplier
and a tier-2 supplier, in São Paulo, the fourth largest city in the
world with 22 million people. Brand-A and tier-1 suppliers are
both located in the same industrial cluster, one hour from my
hotel. The tier-2 supplier is based on a poor neighbourhood
almost two hours away from the industrial cluster. This is a
supply chain in a big city with long distances and too much
trafﬁc.
The visit to the tier-1 supplier is a pleasant surprise. Clearly
a top supplier, the owner (and general manager) takes me
around the facility and shows me the production control team,
their software, and the visual management tools that support
order management and quality control of 20 tier-2 suppliers
spread across São Paulo with whom they work. They also have
an audit team that works on four wheels running across these
tier-2 suppliers, like a milk-run system. They work hard to
achieve high quality and productivity and to offer a design that
matches with what their customers want – and they happen to
be one of the ﬁve largest fashion retail chains in the country.
The owner is also proud to state that he is a ‘recurrent volun-
teer’ for Brand-A’s improvement projects and is happy to help
with the 12-month project we are about to launch.
The visit to the tier-2 supplier is a ‘gut punch’. The supplier
is situated in a region of the city where the postal service does
not deliver, taxi drivers refuse to go, and Uber prohibits their
drivers from going due to violence in the neighbourhood. W e
get there by dropping from an Uber ride eight blocks away in
front of a barber shop. There, we meet the owner (let’s call
her Ana) to get a ride in her car to the facility. Ana works
diligently to make a living, and she explains that this barber
shop is where she can, for example, get something delivered by
Amazon when needed. W e enter this neighbourhood ‘excluded
from São Paulo map’ to see a sewing cell (tier-2 supplier) that
works for the tier-1 suppliers of some of the major fashion
brands in the country.
Ana had started small, and growth had come intrinsically
linked to family. Since sewing cells should not grow too much
(approx. 30 workers) to take advantage of the tax beneﬁts, Ana
has opened multiple sewing cells that work like production
cells. T wo of them are managed by her daughters, and the third
one is managed by her former husband turned business part-
ner. As the four sewing cells supply to tier-1 suppliers of major
fashion brands, this means not only monthly surveillance from
the tier-1 suppliers but also annual audits from each fashion
brand, and on top of that, the annual audit of the Brazilian Fash-
ion Retail Association Program. These audits overlap but also
have differences in their requirements; thus, compliance with
all demands multiplies the required efforts and investments.
Ana tells me that while Brand-A audit emphasises security
(i.e., electric installations, maintenance, ﬁre alarm), another
major fashion brand has stricter controls on ‘quarteirização’
(informal tier-3 sewing cells), and a third one is very much
focused on internal working conditions (i.e., lunch time, paid
leave, etc.). Ana complains about the increasing costs, contin-
uous priority shifts, and inclusions in the audit checklist. With
each visit comes a new surprise and a new requirement.
When asked about her relationship with her employees, she
described herself as a mother to them. Some need guidance on
their personal ﬁnances. Some are beaten by their husbands and
ask for early leave to prepare dinner on time. Ana changed her
tone when talking about her fear of having an illegal immigrant
and how to avoid that. Surprisingly, she also told the story of

[Page 10]
1066 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
an auditor who had acted as a stalker, following her employ-
ees outside work to probe into the working conditions and
ask personal questions. Overall, we feel her struggle to cope
with increasing controls, low margins, and a lack of demand
stability from her customers.
I leave the visit and take the plane back to Rio de Janeiro,
lost in thought about the world we have created for our-
s e l v e s ...t h e f a s h i o n supply chain clearly involves a huge
imbalance between major fashion brands that reach around
one billion dollars in annual turnover, tier-1 suppliers that are
capable of achieving a turnover of a couple of million dollars in
annual revenue (working with approximately 300 employees
and managing 20 sewing cells), and ﬁnally, the tiny scale of
these tier-2 suppliers, with no more than 30 employees and
striving to survive another month. Within this unbalanced and
dispersed supply chain lies a horde of workers, mostly female,
and their voices are the only ones capable of uncovering the
truth about fashion working conditions.
If only we could let them speak using technology to stream-
line communication and offer the transparency of their voices
to the ﬁnal consumer, we could then ease the multiple audit
schemes and seamlessly produce trust.
By September 2018, we had presented a proposal to the
boards of both Brand-A and NGO-A and received a green light
for the project. By October, we had hired Researcher-B. By
December, we had to change our blockchain partner from a
multinational to a local start-up, and the second brand had can-
celled its participation before the project could start. Despite
these surprises, we had agreed to kick off with Brand-A alone
while searching for a second brand. By February 2019, the
project had a detailed governance structure and time sched-
ule, and its budget was approved. At this stage, expectations
were quite high. There was an overall excitement about the
blockchain’s potential to contribute to ﬁghting modern slav-
ery in the fashion industry. Concerns were concentrated on
ensuring that the solution would help in achieving standardis-
ation, reducing the transaction costs related to multiple (and
ineffective) local audits, and putting ourselves in the shoes
of the workers, that is, accounting for resistance, access to
technology, technology literacy, and so forth.
4.2 Phase 2. Design Thinking (And T ransaction Cost
T rade-Offs)
During this phase, we analysed the Association’s audit scheme
and decided that it should serve as the basis for the project’s
deﬁnition of modern slavery. This audit scheme classiﬁed
issues related to working conditions that were in line with the
literature, as described in Appendix 9 ( see: e-companion).
Although the Association’s political strength seemed to
result in standardisation, with its army of auditors covering
thousands of local audits every year across the country, there
was still a long way to go. The heterogeneity of audit schemes
was still high, as pictured in the previous phase. At this
stage, we inferred that the blockchain-led solution could be
the ﬁnal push towards standardisation, as technology favours
automation, and automation favours the adoption of common
standards. In addition, by producing a solution adherent to the
Association’s audit scheme, the chances of attracting other
fashion brands would be higher. By avoiding the speciﬁci-
ties of the current ﬁrms, the solution would then appeal to the
entire industry. W e also needed wider participation to cover
rising governance costs.
In six months, the project advanced through workshops and
the ﬁrst ﬁeldwork tour to Supply Chain-A in February 2019.
In March 2019, we held the ﬁrst group workshop. In April,
we signed a contract with NGO-B and Brand-B. In June, we
held a second group workshop with both. During this phase,
we adopted a design-thinking approach to capture the needs of
involved stakeholders, including the focal ﬁrms, tier-1 suppli-
ers, tier-2 suppliers, and workers, with the results summarised
in a social canvas.
W e had entered the ﬁeldwork highly concerned about pos-
sible resistance to a blockchain solution. Initially, the Core
T eam was mostly concerned with the workers’ resistance to
using a mobile app and responding to a monthly survey. There-
fore, signiﬁcant emphasis was placed on testing the workers’
familiarity with mobile phones, their perceptions of the mobile
app, their reaction to the survey’s writing style, and how clear
the questions were to them. There were many discussions on
how to probe on sensitive issues related to payment terms
and beneﬁts, work hours, work environment and fatigue, as
well as concerns about how to handle responses to open-ended
questions:
‘I think we need to be very responsible with the information
we are going to collect. It is not just about what we are going
to ask directly but about the risks if we leave an open question.
And if someone writes something like “help me” – anything
that puts us in the situation of needing to take someone out of
danger – are we prepared for that? Is there a way for the app
to capture this? And if we cannot handle this, how should we
proceed?’ (Director NGO-B)
In contrast to our concerns and those expressed by the
NGOs, during our ﬁeldwork, the workers expressed surprising
excitement with the project:
‘It is the ﬁrst time in 27 years in this profession that someone
asked me how I feel’. (W orker T2A22)
‘I felt embraced. This way, we will have a voice’. (W orker
T2A11)
Interestingly, while NGOs and fashion brands voiced con-
cerns about workers’ resistance, they saw no risks regarding
the suppliers. Their discourse indicated a healthy relationship
with their supply base, regardless of the fact that the suppli-
ers selected for the pilot project were among the best (thus, it