--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C35
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 9007 - 9256
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
1066 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
an auditor who had acted as a stalker, following her employ-
ees outside work to probe into the working conditions and
ask personal questions. Overall, we feel her struggle to cope
with increasing controls, low margins, and a lack of demand
stability from her customers.
I leave the visit and take the plane back to Rio de Janeiro,
lost in thought about the world we have created for our-
s e l v e s ...t h e f a s h i o n supply chain clearly involves a huge
imbalance between major fashion brands that reach around
one billion dollars in annual turnover, tier-1 suppliers that are
capable of achieving a turnover of a couple of million dollars in
annual revenue (working with approximately 300 employees
and managing 20 sewing cells), and ﬁnally, the tiny scale of
these tier-2 suppliers, with no more than 30 employees and
striving to survive another month. Within this unbalanced and
dispersed supply chain lies a horde of workers, mostly female,
and their voices are the only ones capable of uncovering the
truth about fashion working conditions.
If only we could let them speak using technology to stream-
line communication and offer the transparency of their voices
to the ﬁnal consumer, we could then ease the multiple audit
schemes and seamlessly produce trust.
By September 2018, we had presented a proposal to the
boards of both Brand-A and NGO-A and received a green light
for the project. By October, we had hired Researcher-B. By
December, we had to change our blockchain partner from a
multinational to a local start-up, and the second brand had can-
celled its participation before the project could start. Despite
these surprises, we had agreed to kick off with Brand-A alone
while searching for a second brand. By February 2019, the
project had a detailed governance structure and time sched-
ule, and its budget was approved. At this stage, expectations
were quite high. There was an overall excitement about the
blockchain’s potential to contribute to ﬁghting modern slav-
ery in the fashion industry. Concerns were concentrated on
ensuring that the solution would help in achieving standardis-
ation, reducing the transaction costs related to multiple (and
ineffective) local audits, and putting ourselves in the shoes
of the workers, that is, accounting for resistance, access to
technology, technology literacy, and so forth.
4.2 Phase 2. Design Thinking (And T ransaction Cost
T rade-Offs)
During this phase, we analysed the Association’s audit scheme
and decided that it should serve as the basis for the project’s
deﬁnition of modern slavery. This audit scheme classiﬁed
issues related to working conditions that were in line with the
literature, as described in Appendix 9 ( see: e-companion).
Although the Association’s political strength seemed to
result in standardisation, with its army of auditors covering
thousands of local audits every year across the country, there
was still a long way to go. The heterogeneity of audit schemes
was still high, as pictured in the previous phase. At this
stage, we inferred that the blockchain-led solution could be
the ﬁnal push towards standardisation, as technology favours
automation, and automation favours the adoption of common
standards. In addition, by producing a solution adherent to the
Association’s audit scheme, the chances of attracting other
fashion brands would be higher. By avoiding the speciﬁci-
ties of the current ﬁrms, the solution would then appeal to the
entire industry. W e also needed wider participation to cover
rising governance costs.
In six months, the project advanced through workshops and
the ﬁrst ﬁeldwork tour to Supply Chain-A in February 2019.
In March 2019, we held the ﬁrst group workshop. In April,
we signed a contract with NGO-B and Brand-B. In June, we
held a second group workshop with both. During this phase,
we adopted a design-thinking approach to capture the needs of
involved stakeholders, including the focal ﬁrms, tier-1 suppli-
ers, tier-2 suppliers, and workers, with the results summarised
in a social canvas.
W e had entered the ﬁeldwork highly concerned about pos-
sible resistance to a blockchain solution. Initially, the Core
T eam was mostly concerned with the workers’ resistance to
using a mobile app and responding to a monthly survey. There-
fore, signiﬁcant emphasis was placed on testing the workers’
familiarity with mobile phones, their perceptions of the mobile
app, their reaction to the survey’s writing style, and how clear
the questions were to them. There were many discussions on
how to probe on sensitive issues related to payment terms
and beneﬁts, work hours, work environment and fatigue, as
well as concerns about how to handle responses to open-ended
questions:
‘I think we need to be very responsible with the information
we are going to collect. It is not just about what we are going
to ask directly but about the risks if we leave an open question.
And if someone writes something like “help me” – anything
that puts us in the situation of needing to take someone out of
danger – are we prepared for that? Is there a way for the app
to capture this? And if we cannot handle this, how should we
proceed?’ (Director NGO-B)
In contrast to our concerns and those expressed by the
NGOs, during our ﬁeldwork, the workers expressed surprising
excitement with the project:
‘It is the ﬁrst time in 27 years in this profession that someone
asked me how I feel’. (W orker T2A22)
‘I felt embraced. This way, we will have a voice’. (W orker
T2A11)
Interestingly, while NGOs and fashion brands voiced con-
cerns about workers’ resistance, they saw no risks regarding
the suppliers. Their discourse indicated a healthy relationship
with their supply base, regardless of the fact that the suppli-
ers selected for the pilot project were among the best (thus, it