--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C43
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 11182 - 11431
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 12]
1068 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
and tier-2 suppliers almost as their own property, while the
owners of the sewing cells obviously had a very different
view. Despite the workers’ receptivity, the suppliers them-
selves saw no beneﬁt and only an additional burden. W e were
supposed to survey 30 workers from each supplier during the
second ﬁeldwork tour, but we only visited half of the suppli-
ers, and we collected feedback from fewer than 10 workers
at each facility. As a result, instead of 360 responses, we
were left with 60 feedback points, most of them informal
and poorly registered due to time pressure to conclude the
visit.
In fact, although we aimed at developing a socio-technical
solution by improving quality/frequency while reducing trans-
action costs, we found that the very nature of purchasing
practices induced supplier instability and eventually could
elicit modern slavery. Most importantly, supplier resistance
sabotaged the project. Surprisingly, the focal ﬁrms seemed
to wish to enhance traceability without reconsidering their
own purchasing practices and their impact on supplier costs or
working conditions. Moreover, social and institutional dynam-
ics seemed to help ﬁrms rationalise their reasons for not
changing their purchasing practices, which were detrimental
to their supply base.
4.4 Phase 4. Project Interruption (And a Lesson
About the Status Quo)
Vignette 2: The gut punch of the status quo
January 14, 2020. Today is probably my last trip to São Paulo
funded by the project. T wo full years have passed since my
ﬁrst contact with NGO-A, approximately one year for the pro-
posal and another year for the intervention. After visiting a
candidate global retailer that could be interested in the project,
even though they raised multiple restrictions, and after my last
phone call with NGO-A and the start-up team at the hotel
room, I order a taxi while a feeling of frustration engulf me.
A project borne to transform the industry is about to die ...o r
at the very least, evolve into something that I did not dream of
when we started this journey . . .
It became clear that the intervention affected each stakeholder
in different ways, raising competing constraints that prevented
it from moving further from pilot to full implementation. The
truth is that governance costs to please all stakeholders take the
investment to a level where industry engagement is needed.
NGO-A has always told us that their initial investment was
‘seed money’ and that fashion brands’ buy-in was key to their
continued support. At the same time, fashion brands’ partic-
ipation came conditional on a focus on visibility (their own
control), thus delaying true transparency. As a result, NGO-
A’s interest was clearly fading away. NGO-B and Brand-B are
small players and have offered us all they had during the pilot
stage. They are eager to move ahead, as long as someone else
takes over the ﬁnancial burden. Last, but not least, the Associa-
tion has emphasised high heterogeneity across fashion brands.
Most are interested only in visibility, and even the front run-
ners seem to be waiting for the others to make the ﬁrst move.
This puts us in a vicious cycle, where everyone is waiting for
someone else to ‘open the dance ﬂoor’. As a result, there is no
dancing.
I ﬂy off from São Paulo to Rio de Janeiro not knowing this was
not only my last project trip but also my last trip to the fourth
largest city in the world for a long time (Covid-19 struck us
exactly two months after...)
During the last two months of the project, we had multi-
ple calls for combinatorial analysis with the start-up, NGOs,
brands, and the Association. W e ended up having more calls in
March 2020 (calls on 10 of 22 working days, sometimes more
than one per day) than at any other time in the project. Y et, no
concrete results came out of them. It became clear that fash-
ion brands were not yet suffering enough pressure to increase
transparency, as expressed by one brand manager: ‘ Have you
ever heard the phrase: Sweatshop is wrong unless the shoes
are cute?’ (Manager, Brand-A).
The project slowly entered fadeout mode. After March
2020, contacts with industry players revealed that our project
had inspired advancements in traceability but with no intent of
offering transparency to consumers and stakeholders. As this
research project concluded, true fashion supply chain trans-
parency is still non-existent in Brazil (or anywhere else, as far
as we are aware).
5 Discussion
5.1 Exposing the T rue Cost of Blockchain (RQ1)
W e begin the discussion by answering RQ1:To what extent can
blockchain reduce transaction costs while improving supply
chain transparency?
The fashion supply chain is dispersed and hard to control.
Focal ﬁrms often source from hundreds of tier-1 suppliers
that each employ dozens of sewing cells (tier-2 suppliers).
The further upstream one goes in the supply chain, the more
dispersed, and consequently, opaque, it becomes. Growing
pressures to improve control and transparency have led to audit
schemes that translate into transaction costs. A lack of trust
and redundance of controls (parallel audit schemes) further
add to transaction costs. Our intervention revealed that each
tier-2 sewing cell was usually visited monthly by its tier-1
suppliers and audited by each focal ﬁrm once per year. Fur-
ther, the national association also ran its own audit scheme,
again locally and once per year. As a result, one sewing cell
– that supplied to, for example, three focal ﬁrms – was likely
to be audited 16 times per year. However, the focal ﬁrms still
lacked control, while differences in audit schemes were over-
burdening suppliers. In response, tier-1 suppliers often acted