--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 3641 - 3891
Word Count: 251
--------------------

[Page 10]
9 
aquaculture, they are based on the national production volume of all of the MPEDA-
enrolled farms; for milk , on the production capacity of sole EIC-authorised dairy 
processing establishment and its associated farms and for poultry , on the production 
capacity of four EIC-approved processing establishments, which receive birds  from 
those farms which aim to produce for the EU market . Sample numbers are distributed 
across the different states or regions according to the production volume of the 
commodity and the species concerned (see chapter 4.4). 
7. In line with what is expected in the EU  (8) all of the main aquaculture species 
(crustaceans and finfish) exported to the EU are c overed by the residue monitoring 
plan. The residue monitoring plan for milk covers bovine milk, and the one for poultry, 
broilers.   
8. During the elaboration of th e residue monitoring plans  two factors were taken into 
account, the production volume and the laboratories` analytical capacity. The audit 
team was not presented with evidence indicating whether other factors such as the 
availability or likelihood of use of particular veterinary medicinal product s, or 
previously non- compliant results for a given analyte , were taken into account in the 
planning process.  
9. The scope of testing for the residue monitoring plans for all three commodities includes 
all of the required substance groups and has been significantly expanded since the 2018 
audit. Notwithstanding the expansion in scope, some pharmacologically active 
substances which are authorised and used in practice for the treatment of animals  are 
not included in the plans. 
- The scope for a quaculture has been, as agreed bet ween the Commission and the EIC, 
widened since 2020 for a sub-set of 1% (459 samples) of all samples taken.  The sub -
set is analysed for an additional 1 8 substances in Group B1 (4 macrolides: 
erythromycin, tilmicosin, tylosin, spiramycin; 7 beta -lactams: amoxicillin, ampicillin, 
benzylpenicillin, dicloxacillin, oxcillin, cloxacillin, colistin; 2 aminoglycosides: 
spectinomycin, neomycin; 2 cephalosporins: cefalexin, cefapirin plus lincomycin, 
trimethoprim and doxycycline).   
- The audit team noted that methy ltestosterone (Group A3), which is used in India for 
sex-differentiation in some finfish species, has not yet been included  in the scope of 
testing for finfish. (9) 
 
- The scope for poultry has been widened both for Group B1 with regard to macrolides, 
lincosamines and aminoglycoside s and as well for Group B 2a for which 5 
anticoccidials (maduramicin, amprolium, salinomycin, monensin, nicarbazin and 
 
(8) Article 1 and Chapter 2 of the Annex to Commission Decision 97/747/EC. 
(9)  In its response to the draft report the competent authority noted  that methyl testosterone is used in the 
tilapia hatcheries for the production of all male tilapia.  It is not used in the grow out stages. There is no 
evidence of its usage in other fin / shell fish species in aquaculture.