--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 11
Word Range: 3892 - 4141
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
10 
robenidine) have been added.  T oltrazuril, which is authorise d in India for use in 
poultry, has not yet been added.  
- The scope for milk has been widened for Group B1 with regard to sulphonamides, 
beta-lactams and beta-lactam inhibitors such as taxobactam and sulbactam. It does not 
yet cover marbofloxacin and streptomycin, both of which were seen to be used on the 
dairy farms by the dairy plant`s  veterinarians met by the audit team. It also does not 
cover certain substances in Group B2a such as triclabendazol e and closantel which  
were seen to be used by the State Veterinary services during their annual anti-parasitic 
treatment campaigns at dairy farms.  The scope of  substances in Group B2e has been 
widened to include phenazone. 
Furthermore, the audit team identified substances that are contained in  veterinary 
medicinal products available on the Indian market, that are authorised use in food -
producing animals in India, but not in the EU and which are not included in the 
respective residue monitoring plans. These concerned in Group B1, ceftizoxime and 
ceftriaxone, both of which are authorised in India for  poultry and bovine  animals plus 
ofloxacin, perfloxacin and ornidazole (in Group A6) which are authorised in India for 
bovine animals.  
Notwithstanding the above, recommendation No 1  of the 2018 audit report has been 
largely addressed. 
10. In the 2021 and 2022 residue monitoring plans, the detection limits of the screening and 
confirmatory methods, as well as action levels for all  analyte/matrix combinations were 
the same as those applicable in the EU (10). 
Conclusions on planning of residue monitoring 
11. For aquaculture for which India has an approved residue monitoring plan and for  
poultry and milk, for which it is seeking residue monitoring plan approval, t he 
planning process is timely , sufficient sample numbers are pla nned, and the range of 
analytes included in the res pective plans is much greater than was the case in the 
previous audit. Nevertheless, there is room for improvement in terms of the scope of 
testing, as evidenced by the fact that several substances on the Indian market were  not 
included in the current resi due monitoring plans and these were seen to be used in the 
relevant species.  
5.1.3 Implementation of the residue monitoring plan 
Findings 
12. There are clear instructions (11) governing the implementation of the residue monitoring 
plans for aquaculture, milk and poultry. These are largely harmonised with the relevant 
 
(10) Table 1 of the Annex to Regulation (EU) 37/2010, Article 4 and Annex II to Decision 2002/657/EC or the 
levels recommended by the European Union Reference Laboratories. 
(11) India’s residue monitoring plans for: a) poultry meat and poultry meat products, b) milk and c) aquaculture 
products.