--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 1353 - 1602
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
4 
1 INTRODUCTION 
The audit took place during the period from 7 to 29 September 2022 and was 
undertaken as part of the planned work programme of the Directorate -General for 
Health and Food Safety  and following a request by the Indian competent authority to 
list additional commodities in the Annex to Commission Decision 2011/163/EU.  
It covered India´s system of controls on residues and contaminants in live animals and 
animal products and the effectiveness of official controls on the use of veterinary 
medicinal products in food-producing animals. The audit team comprised three auditors 
from the Commission and one expert from a European Union (EU) Member State. 
This audit was carried out by using a combination of remote meetings (by 
videoconference) and on-the-spot visits. Opening meetings were held on the 7th and 12th 
September 2022 with representatives of the Export Inspection Council (EIC), the 
Export Inspection Agencies (EIAs) from Delhi, Mumbai, Kochi, Kolkata  and Chennai, 
the Marine Product s Export Development Authority (MPEDA), the Coastal 
Aquaculture Authority (CAA), the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation 
(CDSCO), the Department of Animal Husbandr y and the Food Safety and Standards 
Authority of India (FSSAI). 
At these meetings, the objectives of the audit were confirmed, and the control systems 
were described by the competent authorities. Representatives from the EIC and the 
central MPEDA accompanied the audit team during the on-the-spot part of the audit. 
2 OBJECTIVES OF THE AUDIT 
The objective of the audit was to verify the effectiveness of official controls on residues 
and contaminants in live animals and animal products eligible for export to the E U and 
for which India was seeking residue monitoring plan approval (and listing in the Annex 
to Decision 2011/163/EU (1)). The audit team assessed: 
• the adherence to the residue monitoring plan s approved by the EU  for 
aquaculture products; 
• the guarantees provided by the residue monitoring plans impleme nted for 
milk and poultry, for which India has sought listing as mentioned above; and 
• the reliability of the guarantees offered by India  in ensuring that the 
commodities concerned do not contain residues of veterinary medicinal 
products, pesticides and contaminants exceeding EU maximum limits. 
Since the national rules governing t he authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary 
medicinal products (including those administered via feed) have an impact on the 
effectiveness of the residue monitoring plans, the control systems in these areas were 
also included in the audit. 
  
 
(1) From 15 December 2022, this Decision is repealed and replaced by Annex -I to Regulation (EU) 2021/405.

[Page 6]
5 
The following table lists meetings held and the sites visited in order to achieve the audit 
objective. 
MEETINGS/VISITS  COMMENTS 
COMPETENT AUTHORITIES 
Central 2 
Opening and closing meetings with representatives of  
- Export Inspection Council  
- Export Inspections Agencies from Delhi, Mumbai, Kochi, Kolkata, 
Chennai and Kochi. 
- Marine Products Export Development Authority 
- Coastal Aquaculture Authority  
- Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation  
- Department of Animal Husbandry 
- Food Safety and Standards Authority of India  
Regional 4 Meetings at the States (Kerala, Odisha, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu) visited 
and meetings with local authorities at establishments visited 
LABORATORIES 7 
- EIA Pilot Test House laboratory Mumbai (milk residue monitoring 
plan) 
- EIA laboratory Chennai (poultry residue monitoring plan) 
- MPEDA laboratory Kochi (aquaculture residue monitoring plan) 
- MPEDA laboratory Odisha -Bhubaneswar (aquaculture residue 
monitoring plan) 
- EIA laboratory Kochi (aquaculture pre-export testing) 
- EIA laboratory Chennai (aquaculture pre-export testing) 
- MPEDA Laboratory Odisha-Bhubaneswar (aquaculture pre-harvest 
testing) 
OPERATORS 22 
1 dairy plant, 2 milk collection centres and 2 dairy farms 
2 poultry meat establishment and 2 poultry farms 
3 aquaculture processing plants, 3 aquaculture farms, 2 hatcheries 
3 veterinary medicines wholesaler/retailers, 2 aquaculture supply shops 
3 LEGAL BASIS  
The audit was carried out under the general provisions of EU legislation, and in 
particular Articles 120, 122 and 150 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council. 
Full legal references are provided in Annex  I. Legal acts quoted in this report refer, 
where applicable, to the last amended version. Relevant provisions of the EU legal acts 
cited in Annex I are referred to in the individual findings. 
4 BACKGROUND 
4.1 COUNTRY STATUS IN RELATION TO EU-APPROVAL OF RESIDUE MONITORING PLANS 
India is listed in the Annex to Decision 2011/163/EU with approved residue monitoring 
plans for aquaculture products (finfish and crustaceans), eggs, honey and casings.  
India has requested to be listed in said  Decision for poultry and milk.  Given India’s 
listing for dairy products required to undergo a specific risk- mitigating treatment 
against foot and mouth disease in Annex XVIII to Reg ulation (EU) 2021/404, residue 
plan approval is required for  the country to be  listed in Reg ulation (EU) 2021/40 5, 
pursuant to Article 16 thereof.  For poultry, India is neither listed in Annex XIV to 
Regulation (EU) 2021/404 (animal health – fresh meat) nor in Annex XV to that