--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C22
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 14 to Page 15
Word Range: 5759 - 6008
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 14]
13 
products received at the processing plants, exported or subject to PET testing were 
accompanied by PHT results.  
23. Since January 2020 until August 2022 there were 7 non-compliant PHT test results 
recorded by MPEDA.  
5.1.4.2 PET scheme for aquaculture 
24. European legislation (18) requires that all consignments of aquaculture products  
entering the Union from India are accompanied by the result of an analytical test for 
chloramphenicol, metabolites of nitrofurans , tetracycline, oxytetracycline  and 
chlortetracycline, carried out at the place of origin. 
25. To fulfill the above -mentioned requirements, the EIC  has instructions in place which 
specify that: 
- a composite sample is to be taken from each exported consignment that can contain 
products from a maximum of 4 daily production codes from the processing 
establishment. If the consignment includes products from more than 4 production 
codes, the n a second composite sample needs to be taken from the additional 
production codes; 
- composite samples of each exported consignment  must be representative and 
include finished product from each code and pond; 
- the samples must be analysed in an accredited EIA laboratory  using validated 
methods (see finding 55). Each result of the (composite) PET sample applies to the 
whole consignment, consisting of a maximum of 4 production codes.  
26. Between January 2020 and August 2022 there were 94 non -compliant PET test results 
reported. After a decrease in 2021 the percentage of non- compliant PETs increased in 
2022 to levels seen in 2020 (see chapter 4.3).  
27. In the three processing establishments visited by the audit team, PET tests were 
conducted by the EIA as required. In two cases, which were evaluated by the team and 
where prohibited substances had been found, the whole consignment had been 
destroyed and evidence from the rendering facility provided to the audit team.  
28. With regard to the low number of non -compliances for the PHT (7) compared to the 
considerably higher number in the PET (94) in the period from January 2020 to August 
2022, neither the EIC nor MPEDA had realised or could explain the reasons for the 
anomaly, albeit with different test types being  employed in each programme. If 
anything, the PHT ELISA should have a higher  false positive rate than the LC/MS/MS 
confirmatory methods  in the PET programme.  EIC  had not  analysed from where 
(establishments and states) the PET non-compliances had been found  most frequently 
to help them improve their understanding of the origin of non- compliant results in the 
PET.   
 
(18) Decision 2010/381/EU amended by Commission Implementing Decisions (EU) 2012/690 and (EU) 
2016/1774.

[Page 15]
14 
5.1.4.3 Official monitoring in EIC -approved export establishments (EIA monitoring  
scheme) 
29. Establishments approved by the EIC for export are inspected by the EIA every one to 
three months depending on risk. Every six months samples are collected from all such 
establishments and are tested in an EIC -approved laboratory for the presence of  
antimicrobials including chloramphenicol, nitrofuran metabolites and tetracyclines. 
5.1.4.4 Establishment own-checks 
30. All three aquaculture processing establishments visited during the audit had, as part of 
their Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points  system, a critical control point related to 
residues in raw material inputs . One conducted in- house ELISA tests for nitrofurans 
and had never found any non-compliant results. The other two processers sent samples 
to an accredited private laboratory for analysis for a range of antimicrobials (covering 
those banned and authorised in the EU), pesticides and heavy metals. 
31. The dairy processing establishment visited had two own-check programmes in place for 
residues. In the first, each batch of raw milk received at the establishment is tested with 
a commercially available dipstick screening test for an timicrobials which covered 
certain penicillins, cephalosporins, tetracyclines and sulphonamides  with national 
maximum residue limits (MRLs ) in line with those applicable in the EU  (19).  Six 
antimicrobials (including two cephalosporins ceftriaxon e and cefuroxime ), two 
aminoglycosides ( gentamycin and streptomycin) and two fluoroquinolones  
(enrofloxacin and marbofloxacin), all of which are on the list of a ntimicrobials for 
dispensation to dairy cows by the veterinarians of the same dairy processing 
establishment/cooperative, are not covered by the dipstick screening test .  Neither 
ceftriaxone nor cefuroxime have a Maximum Residue Limit ( MRL) established in the 
EU. The audit team was informed that the dipstick test had never been verified (i.e. 
shown to work) by the laboratory staff in  the dairy processing establishment  and they 
did not have access to ‘positive control’ samples or analytical st andards. No non-
compliances had been found from January 2020 to August 2022.  In the second own -
check programme, one sample was taken every two months from one of the 1,200 
collection centres belonging to the dairy processing establishment  to be analysed f or 
aflatoxin M1. Staff from the dairy cooperative informed the audit team, that to date 
(and in marked contrast to the results found in the national residues plan – see finding 
48), no non-compliances had been found for this contaminant.  
32. The two poultry processors visited also operated self -monitoring p rogrammes for 
residues and sent their samples to an ISO 17025- accredited EIA laboratory. The scope 
of substances largely mirrored that of the poultry residue monitoring plan . To date no 
non-compliances have  been found but  there are  instructions to notify the EIA in the 
event of any non-compliances.  
 
(19) Regulation (EU) No 37/2010