--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C57
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 33
Word Range: 15510 - 15786
Word Count: 277
--------------------

[Page 33]
32 
required in the EIC instructions. However, there are no legal requirements for labelling 
of such products in India  (see finding 92). The EIC informed the audit team that 
currently no feed mill is approved to produce  medicated feed  for aquaculture farms 
registered to produce for export to the EU.  
 
Conclusions on official controls on distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products 
102. Whilst there is a  national control system on the distribution and use of veterinary 
medicinal products, it has, in comparison with the EU, a number of gaps and omissions 
and thus, adds little to guarantees on the residues status of food afforded by the various 
residue monitoring plans in place.   
 
6 OVERALL CONCLUSIONS 
It is concluded that the residue monitoring plan for aquaculture complies with the minimum 
requirements established in EU legislation and is implemented as planned. The 
implementation of the residue monitoring plan for milk, for which India is not approved, is 
weakened by the fact that the sampling and reporting strategy reduces the likelihood of non-
compliances for certain substances being reported. Furthermore, a very high incidence of non-
compliant results for aflatoxin M1 was noted for that programme.   
With regard to follow -up of non- compliant results in aquaculture, investigations are 
undertaken quickly, but in many cases did not  identify the origin of the non- compliance.  The 
number of non-compliant results for residues of substances banned from use in food-producing 
animals in the EU and in Indian aquaculture, found in both the national residue monitoring 
plan and in the pre -export testing programme , has not decreased in the last three years. In 
particular, there is a 20% noncompliance rate for such s ubstances in samples taken in 
hatcheries, and the over -the-counter availability of these substances on the Indian market is 
likely to contribute to the problem.  The fact that the number of RASFF notifications for EU -
banned substances in aquaculture produc ts remains low, is more a reflection of the 
effectiveness of the mandatory pre-export testing programme in identifying and preventing the 
export of non-compliant consignments to the EU.  
Concerning the laboratory network, there has been clear progress in t heir analytical 
performance since the previous Commission audit in 2018.  Notwithstanding this, the 
effectiveness of testing in poultry is weakened by shortcomings in method validation as not all 
of the matrices tested have been validated to date.   
With regard to veterinary medicinal products, there are few changes in comparison to the 
findings of previous Commission audit reports.  Substances that are banned in the EU for use 
in food -producing animals remain on the market in India as over -the-counter medications 
(albeit not for aquaculture animals).  Whilst there is a control system on the distribution and 
use of veterinary medicinal products, it contains many gaps in comparison to what is required 
in the EU and does not contribute to the guarantees on the residues status of food of animal 
origin provided by the various residue testing programmes in place.