--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 5
Word Range: 1103 - 1352
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
4 
1 INTRODUCTION 
The audit took place during the period from 7 to 29 September 2022 and was 
undertaken as part of the planned work programme of the Directorate -General for 
Health and Food Safety  and following a request by the Indian competent authority to 
list additional commodities in the Annex to Commission Decision 2011/163/EU.  
It covered India´s system of controls on residues and contaminants in live animals and 
animal products and the effectiveness of official controls on the use of veterinary 
medicinal products in food-producing animals. The audit team comprised three auditors 
from the Commission and one expert from a European Union (EU) Member State. 
This audit was carried out by using a combination of remote meetings (by 
videoconference) and on-the-spot visits. Opening meetings were held on the 7th and 12th 
September 2022 with representatives of the Export Inspection Council (EIC), the 
Export Inspection Agencies (EIAs) from Delhi, Mumbai, Kochi, Kolkata  and Chennai, 
the Marine Product s Export Development Authority (MPEDA), the Coastal 
Aquaculture Authority (CAA), the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation 
(CDSCO), the Department of Animal Husbandr y and the Food Safety and Standards 
Authority of India (FSSAI). 
At these meetings, the objectives of the audit were confirmed, and the control systems 
were described by the competent authorities. Representatives from the EIC and the 
central MPEDA accompanied the audit team during the on-the-spot part of the audit. 
2 OBJECTIVES OF THE AUDIT 
The objective of the audit was to verify the effectiveness of official controls on residues 
and contaminants in live animals and animal products eligible for export to the E U and 
for which India was seeking residue monitoring plan approval (and listing in the Annex 
to Decision 2011/163/EU (1)). The audit team assessed: 
• the adherence to the residue monitoring plan s approved by the EU  for 
aquaculture products; 
• the guarantees provided by the residue monitoring plans impleme nted for 
milk and poultry, for which India has sought listing as mentioned above; and 
• the reliability of the guarantees offered by India  in ensuring that the 
commodities concerned do not contain residues of veterinary medicinal 
products, pesticides and contaminants exceeding EU maximum limits. 
Since the national rules governing t he authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary 
medicinal products (including those administered via feed) have an impact on the 
effectiveness of the residue monitoring plans, the control systems in these areas were 
also included in the audit. 
  
 
(1) From 15 December 2022, this Decision is repealed and replaced by Annex -I to Regulation (EU) 2021/405.