--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 30 to Page 32
Word Range: 12620 - 14209
Word Count: 1,590
--------------------

[Page 30]
29 
and 28 days  for meat.  Even for poultry the withdrawal period was often 28 days  for 
meat which, if followed would mean  that broilers could not be legally treated after a 
week of age. 
89. The competent authority informed the audit team that national legislation does not 
allow “off-label use”, thus t he use of human medicinal products for food-producing 
animals or veterinary medical products authorised for species other than the one 
indicated in the label instructions . However, in two pharmacies  visited by the audit 
team, human medicines had been prescribed for food- producing animals. In one case 
this concerned the nitroimidazole tinidazole (not approved in the EU for food-
producing animals). In another case, a  product containing doxycycline  (even though 
there are approved veterinary medicinal products containing doxyc ycline). The latter 
example is different to what is required in the EU (73).  
90. Similar to the  situation in the EU  (74), national rules  (75) require farmers to keep 
treatment records  at dairy, poultry and aquaculture farms.  The audit team found that 
with regards to dairy farms, there was a central electronic treatment record database at 
the dairy processing establishment visited, which recorded all treatments administered 
on its affiliated dairy farms by or under the supervision of the  establishment’s 
veterinarians. The audit team could verify at the processing establishment, the two milk 
collection centres a nd the two f arms visited, that the recorded information was similar 
to what is required in the EU  (76). Nevertheless, not all treatments were recorded.  For 
example the  annual deworming (using albendazole, fenbendazole, triclabendazole or 
closantel, the latter two of which are not included in the residue monitoring plan ) or 
ectoparasitic treatment (using cypermethrin and amitraz) campaigns conducted by the 
state´s veterinary service.  In the two collection centres visited, the audit team 
established that that milk from dairy cattle had been delivered to the processor within 
the withdrawal period of the substances used in the deworming campaigns.   
91. For poultry, the on-farm treatment records on the two poultry farms visited includ ed 
treatments with neomycin, chlortetracycline and the anti coccidial amprolium. The two 
processing establishment s visited by the audit team had a process in place which 
required that treated poultry could not be delivered to the establishment but only sold 
on the local market after the expiration of a 28 day withdrawal period. The information 
provided in the on- farm record was largely in line with what would be expected in the 
EU (
77).  For aquaculture, there was a register of inputs  on the farm visited but t here 
had been no treatment s with veterinary medicinal products in recent times. There are 
also national rules  (78) applicable to aquaculture farms allowed to produce for the EU 
 
(73) Point 1(c) of Article 113 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6. 
(74) Article 108 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6.  
(75) Point 7.3 and points 2.3(j), 3.2(b) and 4.2 (d) of the Annex IC to Executive Instructions for Export of Milk 
and Milk Products (2022); Point II.6 (b) of the Annex IC to the Executive Instructions for Export of Fresh 
Poultry Meat and Poultry Meat Products (2015) and Appendix C (Traceability record) of the Executive 
Instructions for Approval and Monitoring of Fish and Fishery Products for Export.  
(76) Article 108 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6.  
(77) Article 108 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6.  
(78) Articles 6(5) and 13 of Notification S.O. 497 (E) dated 10th March 2011

[Page 31]
30 
market; they  shall only source feed, or if authorised, medicated feed, from EIC -
approved and registered feedmills. 
92. There is no  legislation in place for the labelling of premixes of medicated feeding 
stuffs, feed additives, medicated feed or feed. Thus, the producer is at liberty to decide 
what information is provided on labels of such products . The audit team saw at the 
visited pharmacies nutritional supplements for cattle which included no information on 
the ingredients.  The EIC informed the audit team that legislation to establish such a 
system is currently under preparation by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of 
India.  
 
Conclusions on authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products 
93. While there is a system in place for the authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary 
medicinal products it differs significantly from that in the EU and practices which are 
not foreseen in the EU are, consequently, permitted in India, such as “off-label use” of 
human medicinal products  in food -producing animal species.  Cumulatively these 
differences detract from whatever guarantees on the residues status of food are 
afforded by the various residue monitoring plans in place.   
5.2.2 Official controls on distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products 
Findings 
94. According to national legislation (79) the manufacturers and retail outlets for veterinary 
medicinal products should be inspected regularly which is similar to what is required in 
the EU (80). The minimum yearly inspection frequency at wholesalers and pharmacies 
visited by the audit team in three states was complied with by the respective SDLAs.  
95. Inspections of drug outlets covered the licensing, labelling (species logo, expiry dates,  
withdrawal periods), storage conditions, and presence of unauthorised s ubstances. The 
SDLA inspectors also took occasionally samples to check if the content of 
pharmacologically active substances in the medicinal products is in line with label 
indications, which is similar to the EU requirements (81). Inspections at pharmacies and 
wholesalers visited by the audit team were well documented using a template provided 
for in national legislation  (82) and the SDLA officers promptly informed a licensee in 
writing of any case of non- compliance identified, which is similar to the EU 
requirements (83).  
96. Due to an incomplete CDSCO or SDLA list of approved veterinary medicinal products 
(see finding 83), SDLA inspectors were not in a position to  verify if a veterinary 
medicinal product found at a wholesaler, pharmacy or on a farm was  indeed approved 
 
(79) Articles 50, 51 and 52 of Part V of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules 
(80) Points 1 and 2 of Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6. 
(81) Point 6 of Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6. 
(82) Form 35 of Schedule A of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules 
(83) Point 2 of Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6

[Page 32]
31 
and if the label information on target species, pharmacologically active substances or 
withdrawal periods were in line with  the approval. SDLA staff me t by the audit team, 
stated that they have to trust the labelling information on the veterinary medicinal 
products, as the existing list of approved veterinary medicinal products was incomplete 
and as it was not practically feasible to access the Veterinar y Monographs of the Indian 
Pharmacopoeia for such information.  
97. In the two wholesalers and two of the three pharmacies visited by the audit team, there 
was a register of the products sold which contained the information required by national 
legislation (84). However, given the national requirements for retention of prescriptions 
(see finding 81), the SDLA inspectors met during the audit stated that it would only be 
possible to detect a n illegal sale without prescription for a schedule H drug if it took 
place while the inspectors were present.  Furthermore, the SDLA inspectors stated that 
they cannot check if the name entered under “prescribing doctor” on the sales receipt is 
a licensed veterinarian/doctor for schedule H drugs , as the prescriber’s contact details 
do not need to be kept in a register at the pharmacy.   
98. With regards to o fficial controls on the use of veterinary medicin al products , SDLA 
officers met by the audit team stated that they do not conduct official controls on the 
use of veterinary medicinal products at feed mills  or at farm- level. At aquaculture 
hatcheries and on aquaculture farms such controls t ake place during the approval of a 
farm and in the context of any follow-up investigation of residue monitoring plan non-
compliances.   
99. As regards dairy farms, the audit team was informed that 1  out of the 710,000 farms 
supplying the visited dairy processing establ ishment had been subject to such controls 
when it had been initially approved and at its  quarterly monitoring visit.  Controls on 
use also ha ve to take place in the context of follow -up investigations of residue 
monitoring plan non-compliances.  
100. As regards poultry farms, a  minimum of three poultry farms that are identified by the 
processing establishment they supply need to be officially monitored each year to 
verify, inter alia, the use of veterinary medicinal products at the farm. Evidence was 
provided to the audit team, that such controls took place at  4 out of 723 farms  
delivering to one of the two processor s visited and 4 out of 92 farms delivering to the 
second processor visited (see finding 15).  
101. EIC-approved feed mills producing feed for aquaculture farms registered to produce for 
export to the EU , have to undergo regular official controls as per national 
legislation (85). EIC instructions state that after the approval of the feed  mill and two 
initial monitoring visits at 6 and 12 months after approval, subsequent monitoring visits 
shall happen yearly. During these visits it is to be checked , inter alia, if traceability and 
labelling records of feed is proper and if the incorporation of feed additives and 
premixes, the storage, handl ing and use of medicate d feeding stuff s are done  as 
 
(84) Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules 
(85) Article 11 of S.O. 730 (E) dated 21st August 199 and amended by Notification S.O. 497 (E) dated 10th 
March 2011