--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 2
Word Range: 1 - 250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 1]
In response to information provided by the competent authority, any factual error noted in 
the draft report has been corrected; any clarification appears in the form of a footnote.
EUROPEAN COMMISSION
DIRECTORATE-GENERAL FOR HEALTH AND FOOD SAFETY
Health and food audits and analysis
DG(SANTE) 2022-7490
FINAL REPORT OF AN AUDIT
CARRIED OUT IN
INDIA
FROM 07 SEPTEMBER 2022 TO 29 SEPTEMBER 2022
IN ORDER TO
EVALUATE THE CONTROL OF RESIDUES AND CONTAMINANTS IN LIVE 
ANIMALS AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS INCLUDING CONTROLS ON VETERINARY 
MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
Ref. Ares(2023)2003092 - 20/03/2023

[Page 2]
I 
Executive Summary 
This report describes the outcome of an audit of India, carried out from 7 to 29 September 2022 as 
part of the European Commission's Directorate -General for Health and Food Safety planned work 
programme. 
The objective of the audit was to evaluate the effectiveness of official controls on residues and 
contaminants in live animals and animal products eligible for export to the European Union and for 
which India is seeking approval of its residues monitoring plans . The audit assessed the 
implementation of the residue monitoring plan for the commodities in question and the reliability of 
the guarantees offered by India in ensuring that the commodities concerned do not contain residues 
of veterinary medicinal products, pesticides and contaminants exceeding EU maximum limits. It 
also assessed the authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal p roducts, given that 
these areas have an impact on the monitoring of residues.  
Overall, this report concludes that the residue monitoring plan for aquaculture compl ies with the 
minimum requirements established in EU legislation and is implemented as planned. The  
implementation of the residue monitoring plan for milk , for which India is not approved, is 
weakened by the fact that the sampling and reporting strategy  reduces the likelihood of non-
compliances for certain substances  being reported. Furthermore, a very high incidence of non-
compliant results for aflatoxin M1 was noted for that programme.   
With regard to  follow-up of non- compliant results  in aquaculture , invest igations are undertaken  
quickly, but in many cases did not  identify the origin of the non- compliance.  The number of non-
compliant results for residues of substances banned from use in food- producing animals in the EU 
and in Indian aquaculture, found in both the national residue monitoring plan and in the pre-export 
testing programme has not decreased in the last three years. In particular, there is a 20% 
noncompliance rate for such substances in samples taken in  hatcheries and the over -the-counter 
availability of these substances on the Indian market is likely to contribute to the problem .  The fact 
that the number of RASFF notifications for EU-banned substances in aquaculture products remains 
low, is more a reflection of  the effectiveness of the mandatory pre -export testing programme in 
identifying and preventing the export of non-compliant consignments to the EU.  
Concerning the laboratory network, there has been clear progress in their analytical performance 
since the previous Commission audit in 2018.  Notwithstanding this, the  effectiveness of testing in 
poultry is weakened by shortcomings in method validation as not all of the matrices tested  have 
been validated to date.   
With regard to veterinary medicinal products, there are few changes in comparison to the findings 
of previous Commission audit reports.  Substances that are banned in the EU  for use in food-
producing animals remain on the market in India as ov er-the-counter medications (albeit not for 
aquaculture animals).  Whilst there  is a  control system on the distribution and use of veterinary 
medicinal products, it contains many gaps in comparison to what is required in the EU and does not 
contribute to the guarantees on the residues status of food of animal origin provided by the various 
residue testing programmes in place.  
 
The report contains recommendations to the competent authorities of India aimed at rectifying the 
shortcomings identified and enhancing the implementation of the control measures in place.