--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C42
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 26
Word Range: 11387 - 11636
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 26]
25 
kidney, fat & skin, body fluid (serum), farm water and feed.  At the time of the visit, no 
validation had been performed for these other matrices. In this respect there has been no 
change to what was found during the 2018 audit  and thus Recommendation 3 of that 
audit report has not been addressed fully.  The use of unvalidated methods for official 
controls testing is contrary to what would be required in the EU (55). Evidence was seen 
of the inclusion of a recovery check spiked matrix for non- validated matrices in recent 
analysis batches for anticoccidials (B2b) in liver.  Whilst this is a sensible approach, 
there was no documented procedure indicating how the recovery data was applied to 
mitigate the non-validated status of these matrices and the laboratory had yet to analyse 
these recovery data with a view to validating matrices other than poultry muscle.  
73. During the audit, the laboratory proposed to submit data for a two- day mini validation 
for the outstanding matrices. After the audit, validation results  were submitted to the 
audit team for tetracyclines, quinolones and sulphonamides (Group B1) in kidney, liver 
and fat by LC -MS/MS. The files r eceived did not include a comparison of the 
calculated validation parameters for the new matrices to poultry muscle. Thus the audit 
team could still not conclude that the method was fit for purpose for matrices other than 
muscle. No further validation details were received for any of the other laboratory 
methods in poultry matrices.  
5.1.6.4 MPEDA Kochi 
74. The audit team assessed the validation files for the following methods: 
- nitrofurans and chloramphenicol (Group A6) in shrimp and fish by LC-MS/MS; 
- malachite green (Group B3e) in shrimp and fish by LC-MS/MS; 
- tetracyclines, sulphonamides and beta-lactams (Group B1) in shrimp and fish by LC-
MS/MS. 
All of these methods were found to be adequately validated with appropriate validation 
criteria and concentration ranges applied in line with Decision 2002/657/EC which was 
in force at the time of the validation . H owever, not all methods met the validation 
requirements laid down in the most recent EU legislation (Regulation (EU) 2021/808).  
The laboratory indicated that activities have already commenced to meet these more 
recent EU requirements. 
5.1.6.5 MPEDA Bhubaneswar 
75. The audit team assessed the validation files for the following methods: 
- nitrofurans (Group A6) in shrimp and finfish by LC-MS/MS; 
- dyes (Group B3e) in shrimp and finfish by LC-MS/MS; 
- tetracyclines and quinolones (Group B1) in shrimp and finfish by LC-MS/MS; 
- chloramphenicol (Group A6) screening in shrimp by ELISA (PHT); 
- nitrofurans (Group A6) screening in shrimp by ELISA (PHT). 
 
(55) Article 3 of Regulation (EU) 2021/808.