--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 4142 - 4391
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
10 
robenidine) have been added.  T oltrazuril, which is authorise d in India for use in 
poultry, has not yet been added.  
- The scope for milk has been widened for Group B1 with regard to sulphonamides, 
beta-lactams and beta-lactam inhibitors such as taxobactam and sulbactam. It does not 
yet cover marbofloxacin and streptomycin, both of which were seen to be used on the 
dairy farms by the dairy plant`s  veterinarians met by the audit team. It also does not 
cover certain substances in Group B2a such as triclabendazol e and closantel which  
were seen to be used by the State Veterinary services during their annual anti-parasitic 
treatment campaigns at dairy farms.  The scope of  substances in Group B2e has been 
widened to include phenazone. 
Furthermore, the audit team identified substances that are contained in  veterinary 
medicinal products available on the Indian market, that are authorised use in food -
producing animals in India, but not in the EU and which are not included in the 
respective residue monitoring plans. These concerned in Group B1, ceftizoxime and 
ceftriaxone, both of which are authorised in India for  poultry and bovine  animals plus 
ofloxacin, perfloxacin and ornidazole (in Group A6) which are authorised in India for 
bovine animals.  
Notwithstanding the above, recommendation No 1  of the 2018 audit report has been 
largely addressed. 
10. In the 2021 and 2022 residue monitoring plans, the detection limits of the screening and 
confirmatory methods, as well as action levels for all  analyte/matrix combinations were 
the same as those applicable in the EU (10). 
Conclusions on planning of residue monitoring 
11. For aquaculture for which India has an approved residue monitoring plan and for  
poultry and milk, for which it is seeking residue monitoring plan approval, t he 
planning process is timely , sufficient sample numbers are pla nned, and the range of 
analytes included in the res pective plans is much greater than was the case in the 
previous audit. Nevertheless, there is room for improvement in terms of the scope of 
testing, as evidenced by the fact that several substances on the Indian market were  not 
included in the current resi due monitoring plans and these were seen to be used in the 
relevant species.  
5.1.3 Implementation of the residue monitoring plan 
Findings 
12. There are clear instructions (11) governing the implementation of the residue monitoring 
plans for aquaculture, milk and poultry. These are largely harmonised with the relevant 
 
(10) Table 1 of the Annex to Regulation (EU) 37/2010, Article 4 and Annex II to Decision 2002/657/EC or the 
levels recommended by the European Union Reference Laboratories. 
(11) India’s residue monitoring plans for: a) poultry meat and poultry meat products, b) milk and c) aquaculture 
products.

[Page 12]
11 
EU requirements  (12). In line with these instructions, sa mpling is unforeseen, spread 
throughout the year  and covers the main production area s. Furthermore, residue 
monitoring samples are collected  using adequate sampling material , sealed and 
transported ensuring their integrity, traceability and legal validity.  
13. The 2021 residue monitoring plan for aquaculture (including samples at all hatcheries 
to be analysed for nitrofurans and chloramphenicol) and the 2021/22 plans for milk and 
poultry were implemented as planned.  
14. For milk the EIC instruction on how to implement the residue monitoring plan reduces 
the likelihood of detecting substances included in Group A6 (banned antimicrobials) 
and Group B1 (antimicrobials)  and in Group B2a (anthelmintics) .  This is due to the 
fact that the EIC instructed their laboratory to divide the total number of samples in to 7 
subsets that are each analysed with a multiresidue method, but where only certain 
substances included in the multi -residue method had to be reported in a given subset . 
Thus, if a non- compliance had been found for any of the other substances included in 
the subset´s multiresidue method it would not have been reported as a non -compliance.  
This is contrary to what would be expected in the EU (13). 
15. Similar to EU rules, aquaculture s amples to be analysed for Group A were taken at 
farm/hatchery level at all stages of farming  (14). Milk samples were taken from 
individual farms when delivered to  milk collection centres  (15) and poultry samples to 
be analysed for  substances in Group A were taken both at farm and at slaughterhouse 
level (16). There was a mechanism to  avoid that samples were taken from the same 
farms, either at farm level or at processing establishment level. At one poultry 
processing plant visited by the audit team all 9 2 of the farms supplying it (and all of 
which intend to provide for the EU market, should India be successfully listed in the 
requisite EU Regulations for animal health, public health and residues)  were eligible to 
be sampled.  For the second processor visited, 723 out of the 1,937 farms supplying it 
were deemed to be able to supply to the EU market (as per the caveats above)  and this 
second processor had specific days on which only poultry from thos e 723 farms would 
be processed and from which residue monitoring samples were taken.  
16. The implementation of the aquaculture national residue monitoring plan is  regularly 
monitored through an on- line data base by MPEDA which notifies all of the MPEDA 
offices/centres and the EIC about the plan’s implementation status and the non -
compliant results found . Monthly updates on t he implementation of the poultry and 
milk residue monitoring plans are reported by the respective EIA offices to the EIC.  
17. The residue mo nitoring plan for aquaculture specifies  that samples have to be 
forwarded to the designated laboratory within three days and reach the laboratory after 
 
(12) Annex III to Directive 96/23/EC, Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808. 
(13) Point 1(a) of Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 (read in conjunction with Points 1 and 2 of the Annex 
III to Directive 96/23/EC and Point 1(B) of Chapter 1 of the Annex to Decision 97/747/EC).  
(14) Point 1 of Chapter III of the Annex IV to Directive 96/23/EC. 
(15) Point 3 of the Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2021/808. 
(16) Chapter 2 of the Annex IV to Directive 96/23/EC.