--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C55
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 32
Word Range: 14900 - 15259
Word Count: 360
--------------------

[Page 32]
31 
and if the label information on target species, pharmacologically active substances or 
withdrawal periods were in line with  the approval. SDLA staff me t by the audit team, 
stated that they have to trust the labelling information on the veterinary medicinal 
products, as the existing list of approved veterinary medicinal products was incomplete 
and as it was not practically feasible to access the Veterinar y Monographs of the Indian 
Pharmacopoeia for such information.  
97. In the two wholesalers and two of the three pharmacies visited by the audit team, there 
was a register of the products sold which contained the information required by national 
legislation (84). However, given the national requirements for retention of prescriptions 
(see finding 81), the SDLA inspectors met during the audit stated that it would only be 
possible to detect a n illegal sale without prescription for a schedule H drug if it took 
place while the inspectors were present.  Furthermore, the SDLA inspectors stated that 
they cannot check if the name entered under “prescribing doctor” on the sales receipt is 
a licensed veterinarian/doctor for schedule H drugs , as the prescriber’s contact details 
do not need to be kept in a register at the pharmacy.   
98. With regards to o fficial controls on the use of veterinary medicin al products , SDLA 
officers met by the audit team stated that they do not conduct official controls on the 
use of veterinary medicinal products at feed mills  or at farm- level. At aquaculture 
hatcheries and on aquaculture farms such controls t ake place during the approval of a 
farm and in the context of any follow-up investigation of residue monitoring plan non-
compliances.   
99. As regards dairy farms, the audit team was informed that 1  out of the 710,000 farms 
supplying the visited dairy processing establ ishment had been subject to such controls 
when it had been initially approved and at its  quarterly monitoring visit.  Controls on 
use also ha ve to take place in the context of follow -up investigations of residue 
monitoring plan non-compliances.  
100. As regards poultry farms, a  minimum of three poultry farms that are identified by the 
processing establishment they supply need to be officially monitored each year to 
verify, inter alia, the use of veterinary medicinal products at the farm. Evidence was 
provided to the audit team, that such controls took place at  4 out of 723 farms  
delivering to one of the two processor s visited and 4 out of 92 farms delivering to the 
second processor visited (see finding 15).  
101. EIC-approved feed mills producing feed for aquaculture farms registered to produce for 
export to the EU , have to undergo regular official controls as per national 
legislation (85). EIC instructions state that after the approval of the feed  mill and two 
initial monitoring visits at 6 and 12 months after approval, subsequent monitoring visits 
shall happen yearly. During these visits it is to be checked , inter alia, if traceability and 
labelling records of feed is proper and if the incorporation of feed additives and 
premixes, the storage, handl ing and use of medicate d feeding stuff s are done  as 
 
(84) Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules 
(85) Article 11 of S.O. 730 (E) dated 21st August 199 and amended by Notification S.O. 497 (E) dated 10th 
March 2011