--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-103-C43
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-103
Page Range: Page 26 to Page 27
Word Range: 11637 - 11886
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 26]
25 
kidney, fat & skin, body fluid (serum), farm water and feed.  At the time of the visit, no 
validation had been performed for these other matrices. In this respect there has been no 
change to what was found during the 2018 audit  and thus Recommendation 3 of that 
audit report has not been addressed fully.  The use of unvalidated methods for official 
controls testing is contrary to what would be required in the EU (55). Evidence was seen 
of the inclusion of a recovery check spiked matrix for non- validated matrices in recent 
analysis batches for anticoccidials (B2b) in liver.  Whilst this is a sensible approach, 
there was no documented procedure indicating how the recovery data was applied to 
mitigate the non-validated status of these matrices and the laboratory had yet to analyse 
these recovery data with a view to validating matrices other than poultry muscle.  
73. During the audit, the laboratory proposed to submit data for a two- day mini validation 
for the outstanding matrices. After the audit, validation results  were submitted to the 
audit team for tetracyclines, quinolones and sulphonamides (Group B1) in kidney, liver 
and fat by LC -MS/MS. The files r eceived did not include a comparison of the 
calculated validation parameters for the new matrices to poultry muscle. Thus the audit 
team could still not conclude that the method was fit for purpose for matrices other than 
muscle. No further validation details were received for any of the other laboratory 
methods in poultry matrices.  
5.1.6.4 MPEDA Kochi 
74. The audit team assessed the validation files for the following methods: 
- nitrofurans and chloramphenicol (Group A6) in shrimp and fish by LC-MS/MS; 
- malachite green (Group B3e) in shrimp and fish by LC-MS/MS; 
- tetracyclines, sulphonamides and beta-lactams (Group B1) in shrimp and fish by LC-
MS/MS. 
All of these methods were found to be adequately validated with appropriate validation 
criteria and concentration ranges applied in line with Decision 2002/657/EC which was 
in force at the time of the validation . H owever, not all methods met the validation 
requirements laid down in the most recent EU legislation (Regulation (EU) 2021/808).  
The laboratory indicated that activities have already commenced to meet these more 
recent EU requirements. 
5.1.6.5 MPEDA Bhubaneswar 
75. The audit team assessed the validation files for the following methods: 
- nitrofurans (Group A6) in shrimp and finfish by LC-MS/MS; 
- dyes (Group B3e) in shrimp and finfish by LC-MS/MS; 
- tetracyclines and quinolones (Group B1) in shrimp and finfish by LC-MS/MS; 
- chloramphenicol (Group A6) screening in shrimp by ELISA (PHT); 
- nitrofurans (Group A6) screening in shrimp by ELISA (PHT). 
 
(55) Article 3 of Regulation (EU) 2021/808.

[Page 27]
26 
In spite of the fact that the laboratory no longer tests finfish (in either the 2021 or 2022 
residue monitoring plans), t he majority of these methods were found to be adequately 
validated with appropriate validation criteria and concentration ranges applied in line 
with the EU Decision (2002/657/EC)  in force at the time of the validation , though not 
all methods met the validation requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2021/808.  
 
Conclusions on laboratories 
76. Relative to the 2018 audit, improvements have  been made in  the performance 
of 
residue testing laboratories, particularly in respect of aquaculture products.  
Nevertheless, there is still a sizable number of analytical methods for residues in 
poultry matrices (other than muscle) which have yet to be validated, and in this respect 
there has been little progress since 2018.   
5.2 VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
5.2.1 Authorisation, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products  
77. The manufacture, import, sale and distribution of drugs and drug products are regulated 
under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act (1940) and Rules (1945) both for human and 
veterinary medicinal products. It is implemented at national level by the Central Drugs 
Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) (under the Directorate -General of Health 
Services of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) an d at state level by their State 
Drug Licensing Authorities  (SDLA). The CDSCO is responsible, inter alia , for the 
approval of new drugs (granted for 4 years), based on which the SDLA can approve the 
manufacturing of the drug in their state with a license validity of 5 years. 
78. Drug manufacturers and wholesalers for veterinary medicinal products must be 
authorised ( licensed) similar to what is required in the EU  (56). R etail outlets also 
require a licence prior to being allowed to sell veterinary medical products. This is done 
by the SDLA in the state / state region in which they operate  with licenses that are up 
for renewal every five years. The CDSCO stated that there are ap proximately 600,000 
registered drug outlets/pharmacies registered in India.  All of the wholesalers and 
pharmacies visited during the audit had valid licenses. 
79. Drugs (for veterinary or human use) which include substances that require a 
prescription by a qualified practitioner (doctor or veterinarian) are listed in schedule H 
and H1 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules. The most recent version of schedule 
H (31.12. 2016) lists 536 substances , of which only a few are relevant for use in food-
producing animals. Schedule H1, includes 46 substances which include antimicrobials 
such as 3rd and 4th generation cephalosporins and some quinolones. 
80. The list of schedule H substances includes the term “ antibiotics” and lists furthermore 
several specific anti microbial substances. The competent authority informed the audit 
 
(56) Articles 88 and 99 of Regulation (EU) 2019/6.