--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-SPICE-005-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-SPICE-005
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1121 - 1419
Word Count: 299
--------------------

[Page 3]
(3) Recent notifications received through the RASFF indicate the existence of serious direct or indirect risk for human 
health deriving from certain food or feed. Additionally, official controls performed by the Member States on certain 
food and feed of non-animal origin in the first semester of 2025 indicate that the lists set out in Annexes I and II to 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be amended in order to protect human health in the Union.
(4) In relation to consignments of seem beans and helmet beans ( Lablab purpureus) from Bangladesh, a high rate of non- 
compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation with respect to pesticide residues was 
detected during official controls performed by the Member States in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. It is therefore appropriate to increase the frequency of identity and 
physical checks to be performed on those consignments entering the Union to 30 % in Annex I to Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
(5) In relation to consignments of palm oil packed for direct human consumption from Côte d’Ivoire, a high rate of non- 
compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation with respect to contamination by Sudan 
dyes was detected during official controls performed by the Member States in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. It is therefore appropriate to increase the frequency of identity and 
physical checks to be performed on those consignments entering the Union to 30 % in Annex I to Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. However, for bulk consignments of palm oil, the official controls carried out by the 
Member States show compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. Therefore, an 
increased level of official controls of bulk consignments of palm oil from Côte d’Ivoire is no longer justified and a 
note to limit official controls to consignments of palm oil packed for direct human consumption should be added to 
the entry of palm oil from Côte d’Ivoire in Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
(6) Oranges from Egypt have been subjected to an increased level of official controls due to the risk of the presence of 
pesticide residues since July 2022. The official controls carried out by the Member States show improvement in 
compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. Therefore, while an increased level of 
official controls is still appropriate, the level of 20 % of consignments entering the Union is no longer justified for 
that commodity and the frequency of controls should be decreased to 10 % of consignments entering the Union in 
Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
(7) In relation to consignments of strawberries from Egypt, data from RASFF notifications and information regarding 
official controls performed by the Member States indicate the emergence of new risks for human health, due to 
possible pesticide residues. It is therefore necessary to require an increased level of official controls on entries of that 
commodity from Egypt. That commodity should therefore be included in Annex I to Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2019/1793, with a frequency of identity and physical checks set at 20 % of consignments entering the Union.
(8) Okra from India has been subjected to an increased level of official controls due to the risk of the presence of pesticide 
residues and ethylene oxide since July 2018. The official controls carried out on that commodity in relation to 
ethylene oxide by the Member States indicate an overall satisfactory degree of compliance with the relevant 
requirements provided for in Union legislation. Therefore, an increased level of official controls for ethylene oxide is 
no longer justified for that commodity and the relevant note in the entry of that commodity in Annex I to 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
(9) Rice from India has been subjected to an increased level of official controls due to the risk of contamination by 
aflatoxins and ochratoxin A since January 2022. The official controls carried out on that commodity in relation to 
aflatoxins and ochratoxin A by the Member States indicate an overall satisfactory degree of compliance with the 
relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. Therefore, an increased level of official controls for 
aflatoxins and ochratoxin A is no longer justified for that commodity and the entry related to those contaminants in 
Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
EN OJ L, 29.1.2026 
2/25 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2026/194/oj