--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-SPICE-005-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-SPICE-005
Page Range: Page 4 to Page 5
Word Range: 1330 - 2940
Word Count: 1,611
--------------------

[Page 4]
(10) Nutmeg ( Myristica fragrans) from India has been subjected to an increased level of official controls due to the risk of 
contamination by aflatoxins since June 2019. The official controls carried out on that commodity by the Member 
States indicate an overall satisfactory degree of compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union 
legislation. Therefore, an increased level of official controls is no longer justified for that commodity and its entry in 
Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
(11) Vanilla and cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems) from India have been subjected to increased levels of official 
controls due to the risk of the presence of ethylene oxide since January 2022. The official controls carried out on 
these commodities by the Member States indicate an overall satisfactory degree of compliance with the relevant 
requirements provided for in Union legislation. Therefore, an increased level of official controls is no longer justified 
for those commodities and their entries in Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
(12) Peppers of the genus Piper, dried or crushed or ground fruit of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta from India 
have been subjected to increased levels of official controls and to special conditions at their entry into the Union due 
to the risk of the presence of ethylene oxide since January 2022. The official controls carried out by the Member 
States show improvement in compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. The 
results of those controls provide evidence that the entry of that commodity into the Union does not constitute a 
serious risk for human health. Consequently, it is not necessary to continue to provide that each consignment is to 
be accompanied by an official certificate stating that all the results of sampling and analysis show compliance with 
the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. However, Member States should continue to carry out 
controls to ensure that the current level of compliance is maintained. Therefore, the entry on peppers of the genus 
Piper, dried or crushed or ground fruit of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta from India in point 1 of 
Annex II to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted and transferred to Annex I to that 
Implementing Regulation, with a frequency of identity and physical checks set, in the light of the number of 
consignments in the last years, at 20 % of consignments entering the Union.
(13) Calcium carbonate from India has been subjected to an increased level of official controls and to special conditions at 
its entry into the Union due to the risk of the presence of ethylene oxide since January 2022. The official controls 
carried out by the Member States show improvement in compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in 
Union legislation. The results of those controls provide evidence that the entry of that commodity into the Union 
does not constitute a serious risk for human health. Consequently, it is not necessary to continue to provide that 
each consignment is to be accompanied by an official certificate stating that all the results of sampling and analysis 
show compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. However, Member States should 
continue to carry out controls to ensure that the current level of compliance is maintained. Therefore, the entry on 
calcium carbonate from India in point 1 of Annex II to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted 
and transferred to Annex I to that Implementing Regulation, with a frequency of identity and physical checks set, in 
the light of the number of consignments in the last years, at 30 % of consignments entering the Union.
(14) Turnips ( Brassica rapa ssp. rapa) prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid and turnips ( Brassica rapa ssp. rapa) 
prepared or preserved by brine or citric acid, not frozen from Lebanon have been subjected to an increased level of 
official controls due to the risk of contamination by Rhodamine B since July 2018. The official controls carried out 
on those commodities by the Member States indicate an overall satisfactory degree of compliance with the relevant 
requirements provided for in Union legislation. Therefore, an increased level of official controls is no longer justified 
for those commodities and their entries in Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
(15) Mixtures of food additives containing locust bean gum from Malaysia have been subjected to an increased level of 
official controls due to the risk of the presence of ethylene oxide in the locust bean gum used in food additives since 
July 2022. The official controls carried out on that commodity by the Member States indicate that the mixtures of 
food additives from Malaysia entering the Union do not contain locust bean gum. Therefore, an increased level of 
official controls is no longer justified for that commodity and its entry in Annex I to Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
OJ L, 29.1.2026 EN 
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2026/194/oj 3/25

[Page 5]
(16) In relation to consignments of peppers of the genus Capsicum (other than sweet) from Rwanda, a high rate of non- 
compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation with respect to pesticide residues was 
detected during official controls performed by the Member States in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. It is therefore appropriate to increase the frequency of identity and 
physical checks to be performed on those consignments entering the Union to 50 % in Annex I to Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
(17) In relation to consignments of peppers of the genus Capsicum (other than sweet) from Thailand, a high rate of non- 
compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation with respect to pesticide residues was 
detected during official controls performed by the Member States in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. It is therefore appropriate to increase the frequency of identity and 
physical checks to be performed on those consignments entering the Union to 50 % in Annex I to Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
(18) Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus limonum ) from Türkiye have been subjected to an increased level of official controls due 
to the risk of the presence of pesticide residues since November 2021. The official controls carried out by the 
Member States show improvement in compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation. 
Therefore, while an increased level of official controls is still appropriate, the level of 30 % of consignments entering 
the Union is no longer justified for that commodity and the frequency of controls should be decreased to 20 % of 
consignments entering the Union in Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
(19) Grapefruits from Türkiye have been subjected to an increased level of official controls due to the risk of the presence 
of pesticide residues since January 2022. The official controls carried out on that commodity by the Member States 
indicate an overall satisfactory degree of compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union 
legislation. Therefore, an increased level of official controls is no longer justified for that commodity and its entry in 
Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
(20) In relation to consignments of Sesamum seeds from Türkiye, a high rate of non-compliance with the relevant 
requirements provided for in Union legislation with respect to contamination by Salmonella was detected during 
official controls performed by the Member States in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2019/1793. It is therefore appropriate to increase the frequency of identity and physical checks to be 
performed on those consignments entering the Union to 30 % in Annex I to Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2019/1793.
(21) Mixtures of food additives containing locust bean gum from Türkiye have been subjected to an increased level of 
official controls due to the risk of the presence of ethylene oxide in the locust bean gum used in food additives since 
July 2022. The official controls carried out on that commodity by the Member States indicate that the mixtures of 
food additives from Türkiye entering the Union do not contain locust bean gum. Therefore, an increased level of 
official controls is no longer justified for that commodity and its entry in Annex I to Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2019/1793 should be deleted.
(22) Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) from Brazil has been subjected to an increased level of official controls and to special 
conditions at its entry into the Union due to the risk of contamination by Salmonella since January 2019. The official 
controls carried out by the Member States show improvement in compliance with the relevant requirements provided 
for in Union legislation. Therefore, while an increased level of official controls is still appropriate, the level of 50 % of 
consignments entering the Union is no longer justified for that commodity and the frequency of controls should be 
decreased to 30 % of consignments entering the Union in point 1 of Annex II to Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2019/1793.
(23) In relation to consignments of pistachios, mixtures and products produced from pistachios originating from Türkiye, 
a high rate of non-compliance with the relevant requirements provided for in Union legislation with respect to 
contamination by aflatoxins was detected during official controls performed by the Member States in accordance 
with Articles 7 and 8 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793. It is therefore appropriate to increase the 
frequency of identity and physical checks to be performed on those consignments entering the Union to 50 % in 
point 1 of Annex II to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.
EN OJ L, 29.1.2026 
4/25 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2026/194/oj