--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-100-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-100
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 2
Word Range: 1 - 330
Word Count: 330
--------------------

[Page 1]
www.sustainable.mit.edu
ISSUE NO.06
StillStill    MattersMattersStill  Matters
TRANSPORTATION
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
ROLE OF REGULATIONS
SustainabilitySustainability  Sustainability

[Page 2]
Since 1963, the Council of Supply Chain Management
Professionals (CSCMP) has been the leading worldwide
professional association dedicated to education,
research, and the advancement of the supply chain
management profession. With more than 9,000
members globally, representing business, government,
and academia from 62 countries, CSCMP members are
the leading practitioners and authorities in the fields of
logistics and supply chain management. Learn more at
cscmp.org
All rights reserved. This publication or parts thereof may
not be reproduced or modified in any form, stored in any
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form by any means
—electronic, mechanical, photocopy, recording, or
otherwise— without prior written permission of the
publisher, except as provided by United States of
America copyright law.
For permission requests, write to the publisher at:
77 Massachusetts Avenue, Building E40-263
Cambridge, MA 02139
or ctl_comm@mit.edu
Version 4
Last updated: November 13, 2025
Suggested Citation:
Velázquez Martínez, J. C., Rajagopalan, S., Arnold, V. &
Mora Quinones, C. A., (2025, October). State of supply
chain sustainability 2025. MIT Center for Transportation
& Logistics and Council of Supply Chain Management
Professionals. https://sustainable.mit.edu/sscs-report/
About the MIT Center for Transportation & Logistics
www.sustainable.mit.edu
The MIT Center for Transportation & Logistics (MIT CTL)
is a leading research and educational center within the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology with more than
50 years of supply chain expertise. More than a decade
ago, supply chain sustainability emerged as a key
research area at the center. The center has responded
with research, e
ducation, and outreach to address the
continuing growth of supply chain sustainability as a
business imperative fueled by the demands and
requirements of consumers, governments, and investors.
Supply chain sustainability research at the center is
focused on enabling research and collaboration on the
social and environmental sustainability of supply chain
business processes. Learn more at 
ctl.mit.edu
About the Council of Supply Chain Management
Professionals
Copyright © 2025 Massachusetts Institute of
Technology