--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-100-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-100
Page Range: Page 15 to Page 16
Word Range: 3199 - 3547
Word Count: 349
--------------------

[Page 15]
Despite the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, Figure 2 shows that over 70% of businesses report no
change in their sustainability commitment, with an additional 12% of companies even increasing their efforts.
Corporate sustainability strategies might operate indep endently of national climate policy shifts, driven by
factors beyond federal political positions, or they might use the strictest regulation that needs to be met to
drive their organization's goals.
In Europe, 60% of businesses responded “Yes” to facing pressure to enhance supply chain sustainability
compared to 46% in North America, suggesting that the push for sustainability is more significant and
widespread in the European market (see Figure 3). Further, in Europe, regulation is the primary anchor. The
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), along with the European Sustainability Reporting
Standards and assurance requirements, is pushing companies to standardize disclosures and improve data
governance. This regulatory framework directly affects European businesses and indirectly affects non-EU
multinationals through EU subsidiaries, listings, and value-chain expectations. In the United States, motivation
more commonly originates with investors and boards/C-suites rather than government regulations, not to
mention customers from the European market. Multinational companies are requiring their suppliers to meet
CSRD standards and data collection practices.
15
Figure 2. Corporate Sustainability Commitment Remains Stable Despite U.S. Paris Withdrawal
Issue No.06

[Page 16]
16
In addition to regional differences in sustainability drivers, confidence in achieving sustainability goals varies
slightly across regions. Among companies rep orting high confidence levels ( 4 or 5 on the 5-point scale),
64.4% of European businesses and 56.7% of North American businesses indicate high confidence.  
Figure 3. Regional Comparison of Companies Feeling Pressure to Make Sustainable Changes, By Region
Figure 4. Confidence Levels of Companies in Reaching Their Sustainability Goals,  
1 being least confident, and 5 being extremely confident, By Region
State of Supply Chain Sustainability 2025
Overall, more than half of all surveyed businesses (56.2%) express high confidence in their ability to reach
sustainability goals, with 35.86% reporting level 4 confidence and 20.34% expressing extremely high
confidence, suggesting that despite implementation challenges, most companies remain optimistic about
turning their sustainability commitments into measurable outcomes.