--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-101-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-101
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 2
Word Range: 1 - 2011
Word Count: 2,011
--------------------

[Page 1]
Determining supply chain effectiveness for Indian MSMEs: A structural equation
modelling approach
Kalyani Mulchandani a, *, Sahil Singh Jasrotia b, Ketan Mulchandani c
a Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management and Engineering, NMIMS University (Deemed to be University), Mumbai, India
b Jaipuria Institute of Management, Indore, India
c Anil Surendra Modi School of Commerce, NMIMS University (Deemed to be University), Mumbai, India
article info
Article history:
Received 15 June 2021
Received in revised form
6 April 2022
Accepted 7 April 2022
Available online 26 May 2022
Keywords:
Supply chain effectiveness
Digitizing technologies
MSMEs
Supply chain ﬁnance
abstract
Industry 4.0 has gained recent attention due to the dynamic nature of businesses. Implementation of
technologies of industry 4.0 offers numerous bene ﬁts to the business, and the supply chain is no
exception to it due to the growing need to adopt new technologies, especially in MSMEs, as they face
liquidity issues. This study is conducted to determine the adoption factors for supply chain ﬁnance in
MSMEs, eventually enhancing supply chain effectiveness. This study has considered negotiation,
collaboration, the external environment, digitizing trade, and the role of ﬁnancial institutions. The study
uses PLS Based Structural Equation Modelling to analyze the proposed conceptual model wherein the
data was collected from various MSMEs in India. Results indicate that internal factors like negotiation,
collaboration, and digitizing trade play an essential role in adopting supply chain effectiveness, and
implementing supply chain ﬁnance leads to improved supply chain effectiveness.
© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of College of Management, National Cheng Kung
University. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/
by/4.0/).
1. Introduction
These days' the supply chain has become complex due to the
growing size of the businesses, diverse product portfolios, and
various geographic places to be served ( Kamble, Gunasekaran, &
Sharma, 2018 ). In Industry 4.0, supply chain management has
gained importance due to the growing need to adopt new tech-
nologies. Supply chain operations have become dynamic due to
competitive pressure and global network ( Creazza et al., 2010 ;
Zhang et al., 2003 ), and therefore, Supply chain (SC) management
has become a challenging task for managers. SC management fo-
cuses on ﬁrms having the capacity to set and maintain long-term
relationships with partner organizations ( Fei & Yi-na, 2006 ). To
date, the primary focus of supply chain managers is on optimizing
the ﬂow of goods. Many studies have considered the movement of
goods in the supply chain ( Bhatnagar & Teo, 2009), but one of the
essential aspects overlooked in previous studies is the ﬁnancial
ﬂow in the supply chain ( Basu & Nair, 2012; Pfohl & Gomm, 2009).
Any organization's supply chain impacts the amount of working
capital required by the ﬁrm, which shows it also affects pro ﬁt-
ability. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are also
looking for alternatives for short-term ﬁnancing that can provide
assistance for ﬁxing credit issues and enhance ﬁnancial perfor-
mance. In addition to other ﬁnancing methods, organizations with
higher bargaining power are getting trade credit from suppliers,
worsening the situation for members in the upstream supply chain.
(Coulibaly et al., 2013 ). These factors have led to determining so-
lutions that can optimize working capital. In times of industry 4.0,
SCF has emerged as an effective tool that helps optimize ﬁnancial
ﬂows at different organizational levels ( Hofmann, 2005 ), and the
solutions are executed by ﬁnancial institutions ( Chen & Hu, 201 1).
In India, an enterprise is considered a micro-enterprise when
the amount of investment in plant and machinery does not exceed
one crore and the turnover is not exceeding the amount of ﬁve
crores. Small enterprise has an investment of less than or equal to
ten crores, and the amount of turnover does not exceed ﬁfty crores.
Medium enterprises have the investment in plant and machinery
not exceeding ﬁfty crores, and turnover does not exceed two
hundred and ﬁfty crores ( MSME, 2020).
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: kalyaniparmal@gmail.com (K. Mulchandani), Sahiljasrotia93@
gmail.com (S.S. Jasrotia), ketanmul@gmail.com (K. Mulchandani).
Peer review under responsibility of College of Management, National Cheng
Kung University.
HOSTED BY Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Asia Paci ﬁc Management Review
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/apmrv
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmrv.2022.04.001
1029-3132/© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of College of Management, National Cheng Kung University. This is an open access article under t he CC BY
license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Asia Paci ﬁc Management Review 28 (2023) 90 e98

[Page 2]
It is expected that the recent global pandemic may create un-
certainty for world economies. ( Fernandes, 2020 ; Ivanov, 2020 ).
Practitioners and researchers consider strengthening supply chain
management to deal with such disruptions. ( Jacobsen, 2020). In the
context of India, the result of a survey shows that the earnings of
MSMEs in India have been affected by 20 e50% due to problems
with liquidity ( Tripathi, 2020 ). Earlier studies have reported that
adopting Industry 4.0 is dif ﬁcult for MSMEs due to the scarcity of
funds for adopting digital technologies. ( Erol et al., 2016 ; Müller &
Voigt, 2016).
In India, MSME contributes 29% to the gross domestic product
(GDP) and 49% to exports of the country, whereas the Government
of India (GoI) plans to enhance this to 50% and 75%, respectively
(PwC India, 2020a , 2020b). However, many MSME ﬁrms are
excluded from formal lending ecosystems and do not have access to
credit facilities for working capital requirements, which affects the
rate of growth ( PwC India, 2020a , 2020b). Despite GoI measures to
extend support to MSMEs, this has remained a problem area; this
may be due to the reluctant ﬁnancial institution to lend to MSMEs
due to high risk, although NPA rates of MSMEs are low compared to
large ﬁrms. In India, ﬁrms require supply chain ﬁnancing for in-
ventory ﬁnancing, post-shipment credit, WIP ﬁnancing, and
working capital ﬁnancing. Supply chain ﬁnancing is provided by
commercial banks and other ﬁnancial institutions in India and is
obtained by MSMEs to minimize risk and costs. Traditional ﬁnance
schemes take the collateral from the ﬁrm seeking ﬁnance which
increases the risk. ( Zhao et al., 2015 ). Latterly, SCF is introduced to
minimize the transaction cost and reduce the default by ﬁrms.
Lenders assess SMEs' creditworthiness and remain updated on
buyer and seller information about transactions, orders, inventory,
products, ﬁnances, and technology. SCF may optimize working
capital and will eventually improve SCE. SCF has the potential to
create long-term relationships with vendors by negotiating pay-
ment terms. Firms are adopting SCF to minimize risks, and the
ﬁrm's supply chain performance can be enhanced without losing
suppliers ( Phillip, 2010).
Existing literature has provided two views about SCF. One re-
lates to the ﬁnancial bene ﬁts ( More & Basu, 2013 ). The second
perspective suggests that SCF provides monetary bene ﬁts and
creates relationships among the parties involved in the supply
chain (Gelsomino et al., 2016). Many recent articles have stated that
SCF is a technique that can optimize working capital, but other
factors are ignored. Therefore, more such studies are needed to
determine the factors that affect SCF adoption in MSMEs. This study
proposed a model focusing on the transaction cost approach; this
implies that supply chain ﬁnancing provides a solution that can
minimize the transaction cost and provides a mechanism that helps
optimize liquidity and enhances supply chain effectiveness. The
current study focuses on various factors affecting SCF adoption,
which are paramount in ﬁnancial matters. Extant literature is not
providing any encouraging results for the ﬁrms to adopt SCF, and
therefore this study intends to ﬁll this gap. This study is empirical
and analyses the ﬁve factors that may affect SCF adoption in a ﬁrm.
This study aims to identify the factors affecting SCF adoption by
MSMEs. The study will also include that adopting SCF improves the
ﬁrm's liquidity position, eventually improving the supply chain
effectiveness. Transaction cost is also less in comparison to tradi-
tional ﬁnancing. This study makes a signi ﬁcant contribution by
proposing a model leading to supply chain effectiveness among
MSMEs. This study extends work conducted by Ali et al. (2019) ,a s
the external environment variable is also included as an additional
construct. Ali et al. (2019) conducted their study on Pakistan's
SMEs, and we wanted to test the model in the Indian scenario to
examine whether those factors are valid for Indian SMEs. Indian
SMEs are very different from those of developed nations, and
technology adoption is not signi ﬁcant in Indian SMEs. External
Environment was considered an additional construct as Indian
SMEs are naturally cash crunch organizations that are less resilient
to external shocks like the Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, we wanted to
test the external environment's effect on Indian SMEs by extending
their four-factor model to a ﬁve-factor model in the Indian scenario.
This study is conducted considering industry 4.0, which suggests
that the implementation of technologies will minimize the trans-
action cost if a ﬁrm employs SCF to manage SC effectively. Also,
ﬁrms can seek ﬁnancing from ﬁnancial institutions without
providing any collateral. Despite being such an important area for
study, very few contributions are seen in SCF in India, claiming
further study is required to enrich the literature.
Further sections are organized as follows: Section 2 reviews the
related literature and develops the hypotheses for the study; sec-
tion 3 includes the research methodology, including sample and
measures used for collection and analysis of data; section 4 reports
the analysis and results of the study; section 5 reports the
conclusion, and section 7 offers the Implications and limitations of
the study.
2. Literature review and hypotheses development
2.1. Factors affecting the adoption of SCF in MSMEs
A survey conducted by PwC India (2020b) states that buyers and
suppliers view SCF as a tool for optimizing working capital and
reducing the cash conversion cycle; this was considered a crucial
beneﬁt followed by strengthening the buyer-seller relationship. SCF
will help the ﬁrms in running their business smoothly. Previously,
the primary focus of SCM was on the physical ﬂow of goods, and
ﬁnancial ﬂow was neglected. However, recently it has started
gaining importance as effective SCM optimizes the physical ﬂow of
goods but also the ﬁnancial ﬂow of the organization. Stemmler and
Seuring (2003) were among the ﬁrst few authors to introduce the
concept of SCF.
The transaction cost is a major concern in real situations while
obtaining funds from ﬁnancial institutions. (Song et al., 2016). Many
MSMEs ﬁnd it dif ﬁcult to obtain ﬁnance from ﬁnancial institutions
due to a lack of credit history and high transaction costs. ( Song &
Wang, 2013). In the case of MSMEs, it was observed that some-
times transaction cost is too high and exceeds the credit amount,
due to which MSMEs do not ﬁnd it attractive to take ﬁnancing
under traditional schemes. ( Song et al., 2016 ). Therefore, this
emerging tool, “SCF,” may cater to the needs of MSMEs and mini-
mize the risk of default, which will create a win-win model for both
borrowers and ﬁnanciers. Despite so many bene ﬁts, so many
challenges affect SCF adoption in MSMEs. Therefore, it becomes
imperative to analyze the adoption factors which play a vital role
while implementing SCF. The study by Randall and Farris (2009)
examines that the implementation of SCF in a ﬁrm increases the
level of commitment and trust among the SC players. Lekkakos and
Serrano (2016) found that SCF enhances suppliers' operational
performance and optimizes the working capital.
In the study, ﬁve factors are considered to assess whether they
affect the adoption of SCF in MSMEs. These factors are negotiation,
collaboration, digitizing trade, external environment, and ﬁnancial
institutions. Also, it is analyzed whether these factors enhance
supply chain effectiveness.
2.2. Hypotheses development
Negotiation is a term that suggests two people agreeing on a
shared decision for a problem about which differences existed
earlier ( Carnevale & Isen, 1986). Liebl, Hartmann, & Feisel, 2016
K. Mulchandani, S.S. Jasrotia and K. Mulchandani Asia Paci ﬁc Management Review 28 (2023) 90 e98
91