--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-101-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-101
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 2692 - 2941
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
stated that negotiation between buyer and supplier is essential in
determining SCF adoption in a ﬁrm. SCF may create a win-win
situation for buyer and seller by adopting an integrative strategy
instead of a distributive strategy. In distributive strategy, one argues
with another party aggressively for convincing to agree on a lower
price or reduced delivery time ( Walton & Mckersie, 1965 ). This
strategy leads to a win-lose situation price ( Walton & Mckersie,
1965). Adopting an integrative strategy requires trust and open-
ness from other parties ( Adair, 2003 ). Balance of power between
buyer and seller is of paramount importance for the adoption of
SCF. Therefore, hypothesis 1 states that:
H1. Negotiation between SMEs and suppliers has a positive rela-
tionship with SCF
Collaboration is an essential element while adopting SCF.
Collaboration signi ﬁes trust and commitment among the SC
players. Many researchers have identi ﬁed trust as an in ﬂuential
antecedent of effective supply chain collaboration ( Capaldo &
Giannoccaro, 2015 ). Firms at all levels of the supply chain must
work jointly to minimize SC threats and achieve a shared objective
of forecasting and predicting. ( Kamble et al., 2020 ). Collaboration
among the SC partners creates bonding and creates an environment
for planning jointly and sharing information on a real-time basis
(Jüttner & Maklan,,201 1), which is very much needed for over-
coming the negative impacts of disasters ( Altay et al., 2018 ).
Collaboration among the SC players enhances the performance of
SC ( Kanwal & Rajput, 2016 ) and, eventually, better ﬁrm perfor-
mance. It is widely accepted that collaboration in SC leads to better
performance in SMEs ( Fawcett et al., 2012). Vieira et al. (2015) also
highlighted that interpersonal collaboration improves SC perfor-
mance by reducing transaction costs. The beneﬁts of SCF in industry
4.0 cannot be availed without a high level of integration among the
supply chain partners, as all members in the supply chain have to
adapt to the technology. Therefore, hypothesis 2 states that:
H2. Collaboration among SMEs and suppliers has a positive rela-
tionship with SCF
Banks or ﬁnancial institutions provide ﬁnancing to MSMEs,
which suggests the role of ﬁnancial institutions becomes a signif-
icant factor for a ﬁrm implementing SCF solutions. In India, many
ﬁnancial institutions grant loans to MSMEs, and therefore the
attitude of top management is highly signi ﬁcant. Financial in-
stitutions which provide ﬁnancing to MSMEs carry out more
detailed discussions so that steps can be taken to minimize risks
arising from asymmetric information and can offer services for
integrated management of SC ﬂow. Relationship among SC players
is vital to measure for providing loans to MSMEs by the ﬁnancial
institutions. Generally, institutions also collect payments from the
SC players to increase revenue ( Tanrisever et al., 2012 ). Therefore,
hypothesis 3 states that:
H3. Supporting role of ﬁnancial institutions has a positive rela-
tionship with SCF
Implementation of Blockchain technology (BT) in the supply
chain may change the way transactions are conducted ( Kamble,
Gunasekaran, & Himanshu, 2018 ). In the past also, technology-
driven disruptions have improved the ef ﬁciency of businesses.
(Craighead et al., 2007 ). The supply chain is no exception, as tech-
nology has also impacted this stream. Nowadays, looking at busi-
nesses catering to diverse locations, the supply chain has gained
importance and has become one of the most crucial elements. With
the usage of digital technologies in the supply chain, ﬁrms can take
a competitive advantage (Gunasekaran et al., 2008), which will help
them make decisions. Decisions like predicting demand,
production planning, and syncing orders are primary challenges in
the uncertain environment ( Pereira, 2009 ). Therefore, moving to-
wards digitalization is of paramount importance to minimize errors
in such important decisions. Firms may adopt Big Data Analytics for
timely information processing, thereby making suitable decisions
(Kamble & Gunasekaran, 2020 ). Technologies like the Internet of
things (IoT), BT, a digital twin, can improve supply chain resilience
due to their connectivity, accuracy, and transparency (Kamble et al.,
2020b). SMEs are adopting a digital system to place the orders, due
to which it is becoming easier to check the status of placed orders
among the sc players ( Fairchild, 2005 ). Adopting technology re-
duces the cost of paperwork ( Perego & Salgaro, 2010), but imple-
mentation costs act as a challenge. There is a considerable cost in
implementation for developing the infrastructure for industry 4.0
(Kamble, Gunasekaran, & Sharma, 2018 ). Digitizing trade offers
ﬂexibility to the SC partners, and by adopting an electronic plat-
form, MSMEs can enhance transparency. As per a study by Caniato
et al. (2016) , ﬁrms that digitize their trade activities tend to adopt
advanced ﬁnancing solutions. Therefore, hypothesis 4 states that:
H4. Digitization of trade has a positive relationship with SCF
Implementation of SCF has to be conducted under the umbrella
of macro-economic variables. Macroeconomic variables inevitably
affect businesses, and therefore this is one such factor that will
affect the decision to adopt the SCF in an MSME ﬁrm. Macroeco-
nomic conditions of an economy affect a ﬁrm's decisions like
investing, ﬁnancing, and promotion decisions. As ﬁnancial in-
stitutions or banks do, the ﬁnancing, laws, regulations, monetary
policy, and other relevant frameworks also affect SCF decisions
(Zhang, 2015). In India, banks are governed by the Reserve Bank of
India, so the governing body's rules also in ﬂuence the ﬁrm's busi-
nesses. Credit allocation is one such decision that affects MSMEs
predominantly. MSMEs will not grow and develop unless in-
stitutions meet their credit requirement cost-effectively and ef ﬁ-
ciently. External Environments are also considered as the Covid-19
pandemic brought in an unpredictable demand, and the use of
technology was enhanced as all other physical activities were shut
down. Furthermore, Indian MSMEs have a severe talent shortage as
they rely on daily wage employees rather than full-time employees,
so it became evident to test the impact of the external environment
on the supply chain ﬁnance of MSMEs. Therefore, the role of the
external environment is an important factor that may affect the
decision to adopt SCF in a ﬁrm. Therefore, hypothesis 5 states:
H5. Role of External Environment has a positive relationship with
SCF
In order to minimize the threats to the survival of the business,
ﬁrms shall do better planning. Therefore, SC development may
beneﬁt the ﬁrm by meeting ﬁnancial and operational objectives.
Gunasekaran, Patel, and McGaughey (2004) also highlighted that
achieving supply chain effectiveness shows the ﬁrm level of success
in meeting operational and ﬁnancial goals. Various factors of supply
chain ﬁnance improve SC responsiveness, thereby leading to supply
chain effectiveness. A supply chain is considered adequate if the
handling and shipping costs are minimized; this reduces the price
of products or services, thereby bene ﬁ
ting the ﬁrm and other
stakeholders. Jing and Seidmann (2014) also highlighted that trade
ﬁnancing is better than bank ﬁnancing. Wuttke et al. (2016) high-
lighted that SCF's implementation improves SC's performance by
extending payment terms for buyers and optimizing working
capital for the supplier to ensure liquidity in the business. There-
fore, hypothesis 6 states:
H6. SCF has a positive relationship with SCE ( Fig. 1)
K. Mulchandani, S.S. Jasrotia and K. Mulchandani Asia Paci ﬁc Management Review 28 (2023) 90 e98
92