--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C12
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 3484 - 3733
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 14]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
14
indicating an area for potential improvement.
Effective Strategies:
• In Maharashtra’s new MIDC industrial estates, 
20% area shall be reserved for MSMEs. 
Out of this, 20% area shall be reserved for 
SC/ST entrepreneurs and 5% for women 
entrepreneurs and industrial units of Women’s 
Savings Groups. For rehabilitation of Ex-
Servicemen & to promote self-employment 
among Ex-Servicemen 2% plots will be 
reserved for Ex-servicemen.
•
 Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development 
Corporation Ltd., (TANSIDCO) will co-
ordinate for the provision of water, sewage 
facilities, uninterrupted power supply, and 
road connectivity to industrial estates located 
in the recognized industrial corridors.
Transport Connectivity : The logistics sector 
is a specific area where West Bengal needs 
significant improvement. Its value in this category 
is lower than the national average and well below 
the average for coastal states. While the state 
performs averagely in the LEADS index, which 
assesses international trade logistics perception, 
there has been a noticeable decline in its value. 
West Bengal has only made marginal progress 
in establishing multi-modal logistics hubs and 
lacks Free Trade Zones, Free Trade Warehousing 
Zones, and Integrated Logistics Parks. The 
number of operational air cargo terminals, inland 
container depots, cold storage facilities, and 
export-oriented warehousing facilities needs to 
be increased.
Effective Strategies:
• Tamil Nadu has focused on the development 
of Inland Container Depots (ICDs) and Export-
Oriented Warehousing Facilities to improve 
cargo handling and storage solutions for 
export-oriented industries.
• Odisha has invested in Cold Storage Facilities 
and operational Air Cargo Terminals to 
support the storage of perishable goods 
and facilitate air transportation, enhancing 
transport connectivity for industries in the 
state.
Export Ecosystem
Export Infrastructure : West Bengal 
demonstrates a very strong export infrastructure, 
with potential for marginal improvement, 
surpassing both the coastal and national 
averages. The state has made significant strides in 
maintaining online portals for export promotion 
and information, setting up a Trade Guide, Agri-
export zones, and reducing regional disparity. 
However, West Bengal lags in the establishment 
of Export Promotion Industrial Parks, Export 
Promotion Zones, and Special Economic Zones, 
offering room for improvement.
Effective Strategies:
• Tamil Nadu has invested in Export Promotion 
Industrial Parks (EPIPs) and established Trade 
Guides to improve infrastructure for export-
oriented industries and provide guidance to 
exporters.
Trade Support : This area provides an 
opportunity for West Bengal. Although it lags 
behind the coastal average, it is well ahead of the 
national average. To improve its score, the state 
can apply for the Trade Infrastructure for Export 
Schemes (TIES), which is a straightforward means 
of enhancing its performance. West Bengal 
already maintains a district-wise/sector-wise 
database of exporters and conducts stakeholder 
interactions/meetings to understand exporters’ 
concerns. However, the number of trade fairs/
exhibitions and capacity-building or orientation 
workshops for exporters has declined compared 
to 2021, impacting the score.
Effective Strategies:
• Tamil Nadu focuses on developing Export 
Promotion Industrial Parks (EPIPs) and offers 
Capacity-Building and Orientation Workshops 
for Exporters to improve trade support.
R&D Infrastructure : West Bengal has an area 
for improvement in R&D infrastructure. Its overall 
score is low, both concerning the coastal and