--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C66
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 58
Word Range: 19152 - 19477
Word Count: 326
--------------------

[Page 58]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
58
standardized government agreements 
that incorporate penalties for delays. This 
approach aims to reduce delays and enhance 
accountability among suppliers.
• Develop a digital platform connecting 
exporters with global buyers and providing 
trade-related information and logistical 
support.
• Host industry specific EXIM fairs (digital or 
physical), promoting MSME product offerings 
to international consumers (Business-to-
Business and Business-to-Consumer). 
• Engage with embassies, delegates, and 
large importing economies to promote 
West Bengal MSME products (especially 
Handicraft). 
• Create industry-specific export clusters for 
resource sharing and collaboration.
• Establish District Export Promotion 
Committees (DEPC) in all districts, formulate 
District Export Action Plans for all districts, 
and ensure their active participation in export 
promotion activities. 
• Strengthen the institutional infrastructure to 
provide tailored support for district-specific 
export needs and opportunities.
• Utilize the network of DEPCs in West Bengal 
to facilitate direct interactions between 
local producers and end consumers in the 
export market to weed out intermediaries. 
Within the next 12 months, establish direct 
connections between at least 100 MSMEs and 
50 international buyers through the DEPC 
network.
• Provide training and support to DEPC 
members and local producers to effectively 
connect with international consumers, while 
also promoting the benefits of this direct 
interaction.
• Develop a digital platform that connects 
exporters with global buyers and provides 
access to trade-related information and 
market trends within the next 18 months and 
ensure that it has registered at least 1,000 
exporters and 500 global buyers within the 
first year.
• Identify and advocate suitable towns for 
designation as Towns of Export Excellence 
(TEE).
• Enable eligible TEE units to access financial 
assistance under the Market Access Initiative 
(MAI) scheme and Authorization under the 
Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) 
Scheme.
• Reduce paperwork by bringing the entire 
application process for new exporters online 
within the next two years and implement 
paperless trade at borders (e.g., Jaigaon LCS 
lack the necessary infrastructure facilities for 
remote Electronic Data Interchange System).
• Integrate the Secured Logistics Document 
Exchange (SLDE) platform within the next 
24 months to replace human intervention in 
the generation, exchange and compliance of 
logistics documents with a digitised, secure, 
and seamless document exchange system. 
• Enforce rigorous quality assessments on 
current infrastructure. For instance, West 
Bengal employs a single-window mechanism 
for investment approvals. However, according 
to the LEADS 2022 survey, the state should 
concentrate on improving the ease of 
obtaining approvals and seamless entry to 
and from neighbouring states, addressing 
highlighted concerns.
Skill Development
• To improve skill training initiatives for 
MSMEs, it is advised to establish continuous 
consultation with industry bodies to stay 
abreast of the latest machinery used in the 
state. The government should proactively 
organize regular workshops, enabling 
MSMEs to engage with local youth for free 
training programs. It is essential to maintain 
consistency in these initiatives, ensuring a 
persistent and ongoing effort. In identifying 
competent candidates, there should be 
a provision to offer them full-time job 
opportunities, creating a seamless transition 
from training to employment.
• Offer skill enhancement and capacity building 
programs to employees in export-driven 
industries. These initiatives will empower 
them to acquire new skills and knowledge 
essential for elevating productivity and 
maintaining high-quality standards.
• Provide support services to incentivize 
exporters in investing in research and