--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 4031 - 4413
Word Count: 383
--------------------

[Page 15]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
15
national averages. To enhance this, the state 
can increase the number of NABL accredited 
laboratories and National Accreditation Board 
for Certification Bodies (NABCB) certification 
inspection agencies. West Bengal scores poorly 
in the India Innovation index, reflecting the state’s 
capacity to diversify its products and compete 
in various markets. The number of research 
institutes dedicated to industry/export-specific 
products is also low.
Effective Strategies:
• Maharashtra collaborates with institutions 
for sector-specific skill development and has 
the Maharashtra State Innovation Society to 
enhance the R&D infrastructure.
• Tamil Nadu introduces the Tamil Nadu 
Innovation Initiative (TANII) and invests in 
specialized training units in large MSME 
clusters for research and innovation.
Export Performance 
Growth & Orientation : West Bengal’s overall 
performance is satisfactory but leaves room 
for improvement. Its score is slightly above the 
national average but lags behind the coastal 
average. The state can increase the number of 
Import Export Code (IEC) holders as a percentage 
of total businesses. While the export growth 
over the past three years has been satisfactory, 
the merchandise exports to GDP ratio remains 
low. Products with Geographical Indications (GI) 
tagging are limited, affecting their premium 
pricing and brand equity. The number of new 
exporters added has decreased since 2021, 
contributing to the lower score. The ratio of the 
number of exporters availing Certificate of Origin 
certificates has been average.
Effective Strategies:
• Maharashtra encourages MSMEs to access 
public funding through Export Growth via 
stock exchanges and implements the Chief 
Minister Employment Generation Program 
(CMEGP) for job creation and growth.
• Tamil Nadu’s Amma Skill Training and 
Employment Scheme and interest subvention 
schemes for EV component manufacturing 
contribute to business growth and export 
expansion.
Export Diversification : West Bengal needs to 
improve its performance in export diversification. 
Although it is marginally higher than the national 
average, it falls well below the coastal average. 
Export concentration has remained in the mid-20s 
over the past two years, indicating vulnerability 
to trade shocks. The Market Penetration Index 
has seen declines over the past three years, 
suggesting a decrease in the number of countries 
to which West Bengal exports particular products, 
in comparison to the total countries importing 
those products.
Chart 11: WB performance compared to National Average & Other Coastal States
Source: Niti Aayog