--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C71
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 61
Word Range: 20663 - 20912
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 61]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
61
of exporting. Utilize diverse channels such 
as digital platforms, trade exhibitions, and 
business events to engage target audiences 
and entice potential buyers.
• Facilitate access to affor dable and flexible 
export financing options for exporters, 
including export credit, working capital loans, 
and insurance products.
SMART GOAL: Within the next year, West Bengal 
to focus on enhancing export promotion activities 
to support local industries. The goal includes:
•
 Formulating an annual calendar of events 
for participation in major international 
events through collaboration with various 
trade-related associations, government 
organizations, and trade exhibitions.
•
 Establishing an analytical database for 
export decision-making and market potential 
assessment.
•
 Establishing a specialized advisory support 
unit offering expert guidance to exporters.
• Initiating inclusive export promotion 
campaigns to raise awareness about West 
Bengal's export potential, spotlight successful 
exporter stories, and utilize diverse channels 
to engage target audiences.
•
 Facilitating access to affor dable and flexible 
export financing options.
• Facilitate knowledge-sharing and mentorship 
for emerging exporters by connecting 
large exporters with small exporters, either 
in person or virtually, in a peer-to-peer 
framework.
Performance Management 
Mechanism
• Establish a quantitative Key Performance 
Indicator (KPI) system to gauge the efficacy of 
export promotion strategies, encompassing 
all provisions outlined in this policy.
• The State should consider “Scalable and 
Transferable” model, emphasizing the 
expansion and adaptability of successful 
practices to benefit diverse exporters, 
regions, products, and countries.
SMART GOAL: Within the next year, West 
Bengal to develop and implement a performance 
management mechanism for export promotion. 
The goal includes:
•
 Establish a quantitative Key Performance 
Indicator (KPI) system that measures and 
evaluates export promotion strategies, 
including but not limited to:
 - Track a 20% increase in the number of 
  new exporters actively participating in 
  export activities within the state.
 - Monitor a 15% growth in the total export 
  volume and value of products originating 
  from West Bengal.
 - Reduce the average processing 
  time for export-related procedures and 
  documentation by at least 25%.
 - Establish and implement a 'Scalable and 
  Transferable' model to expand and adapt 
  successful practices (knowledge sharing), 
  with the goal of applying these practices 
  in at least three dif ferent regions and 
  sectors within West Bengal.
Promotion of E-Commerce
• The State government should collaborate with 
e-commerce platforms like Amazon, Flipkart, 
etc., to facilitate market access for “Made in 
West Bengal” products mapped to key focus 
sectors.
• The government should organize master 
classes on various aspects of e-commerce 
exports at district levels.
• Encourage development of e-commerce hubs 
in high movement zones, closer to demand 
locations and periphery of emerging cities.
SMART GOAL: Within the next year and a 
half, West Bengal to promote and enhance 
e-commerce activities. The goal includes:
•
 Collaborating with e-commerce platforms like 
Amazon and Flipkart to facilitate the listing 
and market access for at least 200 'Made in 
West Bengal' products within the next 12 
months.
•
 Organizing and conducting 20 master classes 
on various aspects of e-commerce exports at 
the district level within the next year.