--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 11
Word Range: 2152 - 2546
Word Count: 395
--------------------

[Page 11]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
11
Niti Aayog - Export
Preparedness Index 
Niti Aayog's Export Preparedness Index (EPI) 
gauges the readiness of Indian states and Union 
Territories for exports, offering insights into 
their strengths and weaknesses. The primary 
dimensions considered in the report encompass 
policy effectiveness, business environment, export 
infrastructure, and actual export performance.
Export Preparedness Index includes four Pillars 
and eleven Sub-pillars which enable precise and 
fair assessment of all the Indian States and Union 
Territories. 
Policy: A comprehensive trade policy provides 
a strategic direction for exports and imports. 
Primarily, this pillar has been incorporated 
to evaluate whether a state has introduced 
enabling policy measures to steer export-led 
growth. Further, it looks into dimensions that 
will shed light on the exact measures and policy 
mechanisms that states have adopted to enable 
exporters to be competitive.
Business Ecosystem: An efficient business 
ecosystem can help states attract investments and 
create an enabling infrastructure for individuals 
to initiate start-ups. This pillar sheds light on the 
core infrastructure facilities, and how states fare in 
terms of creating such an ecosystem. Availability 
of such essential facilitating factors enable 
production units to enhance their production 
capacities and foster future growth of their 
existing exporting capacities. The pillar manages 
to cover multidimensional aspects of fostering 
a successful business ecosystem such as labour, 
innovation, power, IT, logistics, banking and so 
on.
Export Ecosystem: This pillar aims to assess 
the business environment, which is specific to 
exports. An enabling export ecosystem can 
support different firms in all the states and Union 
Territories to increase productivity and boost 
competition. This pillar takes into consideration 
indicators that underline the research and 
development infrastructure, and the trade 
support available to the businesses in the states.
Export Performance: This pillar examines 
the export performance of states and Union 
Territories to identify focus areas and track 
improvements. This pillar focuses on two 
sub-pillars: Growth of Exports and Export 
Diversification
Overall Index 2022
Key metrics:
• India's composite EPI score for 2022 stands 
at 46.56, indicating a discernible variation in 
export preparedness levels across the nation, 
generally falling within the moderate range.
• In the EPI 2022 rankings, Tamil Nadu emer ges 
as the frontrunner with an impressive score of 
80.89, closely trailed by Maharashtra at 78.20 
and Karnataka at 76.36.
Chart 9: Export Preparedness Index 2022
Source: Niti Aayog