--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 2
Word Range: 393 - 642
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 37  
 
green operations with initiatives for organizational improvement are de fined as serious issues for establishing a 
successful green supply chain ( Kashyap, and Shukla, 2022).  Majority of SMEs are privately held businesses and 
seldom actively seek study and publishing of effective practices, it is not easy to find success storie s in the 
implementation of sustainability. 
1.1 Sustainability research in SME domain 
Most academic research work in context to sustainable practices and performances is more focused on larger 
firms while small and medium firm got relatively little attentions (Das et al., 2020; Joshi, 2018). Due to variation in 
scale and scope of operations, assessment of sustainable practices and its performance, need to be examined 
separately in the case of SMEs vis-à-vis larger firms (Joshi and Joshi, 2016). Several researchers have attempted to 
explain crucial success measures in controlling the supply chain for sustainability, but they do not take all aspects 
into account. Research on Sustainability in SMEs Supply Chain Management is still at an initial level and substantial 
research work has not been accompanied by statistical data. All aspects of experience in the field are not taken 
into consideration by the ideas that are being used in SSCM. The success of the business is more related to financial 
and environmental ap proaches and there is a difference in the human and social dimensions of sustainability 
(Shanker et al., 2021; Sharma et al., 2022).Authors reveal in their study most of the research uses PLS to calculate 
sustainability in supply chain management, Future s tudy can be done through different SEM tools (Luthra et al, 
2022; Mardani et al., 2020). In the end we can highlights the following broad breaches in SSCM exercises at SMEs: 
1. The study of Critical achievement issues in a context of particular region to attain sustainability in supply 
chain management of SMEs. 
2. Impact of CSF or sustainable supply chain practices on all three domains: the economic, Environmental 
and social performance of SMEs. 
3. Development of model focused on supplier management practices and op erational management 
practices and their performance outcomes at SMEs in all three areas economic, social and 
environmental. 
To check the operational feasibility of sustainable supply chain model developed. 
2. Literature review 
2.1 Theoretical framework 
In response to the aforementioned questions, authors applied theories of the supply chain (Table 1): institutional 
theory, a resource -based perspective (RBV). Environmentally friendly SCM literature has more widely utilized 
these ideas  (Hafeez, & Andersen, 2014; ; Kazlauskaitė et al., 2015; ; Karim et al., 2022; Kamble et al.,2019).  
 
Table 1. Key Theories in Supply Chain Management 
Theory Description Reference 
RBV (Resource based View 
Theory) 
 
“The Sustainable value proposition of an organisation 
originates from its important, unusual, inimitable, 
non-substitute resources and the specific way in 
which core capabilities are used” 
(Hafeez, & Andersen, 
2014; Kazlauskaitė et al., 
2015; Karim et al., 2022; 
Kamble et al.,2019).