--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 1208 - 1515
Word Count: 308
--------------------

[Page 4]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 39  
 
Research is a value -oriented approach that includes collecting, recording, summarizing, classifying and 
evaluating, along with clear logics and reasons, relevant facts about any problem. Research is scientific and 
systematic search to solve the research problem for relevant knowledge on a specified subject. It is an approach 
to developing new ideas and values within a structu red body of knowledge and exploration. There are two 
qualitative and quantitative methodologies for the study of scientific research. Figure 1 depicts the research 
framework used for the paper. As per Read (1984), the analysis method's preference relies upon the goals of the 
research and the application of the results. Alongside this methodology, a systematic review of current literature 
on the phenomenon of research, working from the general to the specific, conceived the relationship's causal 
model. The a nalysis model was then validated empirically using the multivariate technique subset Structural 
Equation Modeling (Hair et al., 2010). 
2.3 Research Strategy 
The research aims to evaluate the sustainable administration practices of the supply chain and its success 
among SMEs. In this research, factor analysis was used to investigate the stated goals. Figure 2 provides a detailed 
overview of the steps involved in this analytical method. The empirical strategy involves the survey, the creation 
of the questionn aire and the collection of data, and the breakdown of data obtained using expressive 
measurements and dynamic study. 
SSCM- Literature review
 Existing theory related to SSCM and the origin of SSCM
 Review of Literature
Critical success factor identification
 Picking up existing items through Secondary data (literature 
review).
 Development of Survey Questionnaire
 Development of SSCM model.
 Systematic Literature review and Theoretical framework 
building 
 Future research recommendations
 
Figure 2. Research methodology overview 
 
3. Materials and methods 
3.1 Data Collection