--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 1
Word Range: 1 - 392
Word Count: 392
--------------------

[Page 1]
Original Scientific Article Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 
Vol2 1 issue 1, (2022) 36-52 https://doi.org/10.31181/jdaic10011062022v 
Sustainable Supply chain Systems of Food and 
Beverages SMEs in developing countries: 
Theoretical perspective 
Vidya Verma1, Priya Bisht1, Sudhanshu Joshi2,3 
1 Arts, Humanities & Social Sciences, Motherwood University, Roorkee, India 
2 Operations and Supply Chain Management Area, Doon University, India 
3 School of Computer Science, FEIT, University of Technology Sydney, Australia 
 
E-mail: sudhanshujoshi@doonuniversity.ac.in 
 
Received: 10 February 2022 
Accepted for publication: 6 June 2022 
Published: 11 June 2022 
Abstract: 
Considering the growing consumption patters of food and beverages across the developing countries, the role of 
sustainable supply chain systems and their management becomes important. The papers deals in evaluating the 
development of the subject from the viewpoint of underpinning theories. The research also provides useful 
insights into the fields that have been explored by existing literature. 
Keywords: SMEs, Food and Beverages; SMEs; Developing Countries. 
1. Introduction 
In developing countries with ever-increasing concerns about environmental stability, the problems facing F&B 
category SMEs in the production  zone are increasing (Yacob et al., 2018).  Artin (2022) stated environmental 
awareness continues to affect business strategies in the 21st century. The lack of organizational skills in SME firm 
appears to be part of the GSCM framework. The research also includes the most significant elements for the basic 
sustainable areas of supply chain management and SMEs during the uncertainty. (Joshi and Sharma, 2022).  In 
India, businesses are under immense pressure to integrate Sustainable Supply Chain Practices (SSCPs) in the 
traditional Supply Chains. The study aims to examine the challenges to the adoption of Sustainable Supply Chain 
Practices (SSCPs) in SMEs in India.  Within the context of SMEs, the idea of sustainability in decision -making 
strategies has become increasingly relevant. The competitiveness and volatility  of the environment often has 
critical role in identifying best practices to attain sustainability while integrating economic, environmental and 
social priorities in the Supply Chain process Yahia Marzouk, and Jin (2022). With rising regulatory and market 
pressure to adopt green practices, small and medium-sized companies face immense challenges in order to both 
boost their supply chains' organizational and green efficiency. The results of this study show that while several 
Small and Medium -sized establishments recognize the value of green practices, they have incomplete data to 
implement these practices in order to enhance their operational efficiency. Incorporation and configuration of