--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-105-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-105
Page Range: Page 9
Word Range: 3173 - 3422
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 9]
Journal of Decision Analytics and Intelligent Computing 2(1) (2022) 36-52 Verma et al. 
 44  
 
particularly with regard to small and medium -sized establishments in emerging nations Kumar et al., (2019).The 
purpose of this study is just to define the key performance indicators and their effect on the efficiency of small 
and medium-sized companies for supply chain management practices and also analyse the viability of the model 
established in this report. To develop awareness of the condition of the supply chain in the manufacture of SMEs 
and for direct potential analysis. Following research can be carried for future research 
RQ1: What are the effective CSFs needed to attain sustainability? 
RQ2: What are the impacts of CSFs on performance of SMEs? 
RQ3: What are current sustainability environmental issues? 
RQ4: What are the most effective indicators for measuring sustainable performance of Supply chain management? 
No previous reading considered all three features (environmental financial, and communal) of sustainable 
supply chain management in an extensive manner. 
 
5. Managerial implication and conclusions 
This study adds to emerging research on sustainable developm ent, operations management and SMEs. The 
purpose of this research is to have a broad view of how environmental sustainability contributes to previous 
Studies have explored sustainability in relation to financial and environmental characteristics by offering all three 
aspects i.e., economic, social and environment this research contributes to the sustainability literature in supply 
chain management.  The results have many implications for entrepreneurs of SMEs who strive to achieve 
operational excellence, particularly in the manufacturing sector. Operational excellence can be accomplished by 
SMEs through the successful implementation of sustainable practices in their supply chain management. Research 
findings indicate that successful use of model developed in  the study will facilitate sustainable results in 
organisations' operations and supply chain functions.In this influential thesis on the relationship of critical success 
issues driving maintainable activities in Supply chain management of Indian SMEs, the findings of this study are 
explored in detail, offering insight for academics and industry professionals alike. Plausible ties that are not 
accounted for in the model, but substantiated by literature, are explored and promoted. Finally, these findings 
can be used by SME practitioners and relevant policymakers to develop a set of initial guidelines and 
recommendations to assist them in the effective execution of SSCM practices. The most important consequences 
for industrial and political professionals, who a lso provide general knowledge to decision -makers in countries 
other than India, are illustrated here: As a significance of accepting sustainable exercises, lower production costs 
would increase over time. A decline in manufacturing costs does not inherently lead to a greater commitment to 
sustainability and, as such, it is important to take a constructive approach to achieve lasting results.