--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C49
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 59
Word Range: 13497 - 13885
Word Count: 389
--------------------

[Page 59]
59
Clusters are not just sectors – they capture the geographic footprint of economic activities, 
not because they belong to the same statistical classification but because industries are 
systematically related through local spillovers and linkages. Clusters that emerge around specific 
factors and compete primarily on factor endowments tend to be shallow (Ketels, 2017). Porter 
also highlights the role of natural clusters that arise without significant government intervention. 
While government policies can influence clusters, the emphasis is on the organic development of 
clusters driven by market forces. While the Indian definition does touch upon factors like common 
challenges, it doesn't explicitly emphasize the determinants outlined in Porter's Diamond Model. 
The Indian definition of clusters aligns more closely with the concepts of Collective Efficiency 
(as proposed by Schmitz) and certain elements of Flexible Specialization (according to Piore 
and Sabel), rather than adhering strictly to Porter's Diamond Model. However, users of these 
models, whether directly or indirectly, often appear disjointed in their application, seeking 
answers beyond the confines of the chosen framework and underscoring the need for a more 
comprehensive approach. In this context, Porter's Diamond Model emerges as inherently superior, 
with its foundational principles grounded in extensive research that spans various countries and 
industries, providing a more robust and versatile framework for analysis. The consequence of a 
narrow definition of clusters results in a myopic outlook, which undermines the growth potential 
of these clusters and directly impacts their scalability and competitiveness.
In India, the Porter framework has not been tested to a great extent, but there are case studies 
that have used it have affirmed its validity and called for more extensive applications of the model 
in this setting. An examination of the Textile Cluster in Tirupur, also known as Textile hub of India 
(Trivikram, Bhalla, Fraser, & Nicholson, 2011) indicates a prevalence of small enterprises and a 
deficiency in brand equity. However, there has been an improvement in competitiveness observed 
in Tirupur, as well as in other international knitwear clusters, after the termination of the Multi-
Fiber Agreement. Constraint-free access to primary materials (cotton) and robust Institutions for 
Collaboration (IFCs) bolster the Tirupur cluster. The cluster is renowned for its capacity to fulfil 
orders with short lead periods of two to four weeks and for the entrepreneurial spirit of its SME 
members. Poor infrastructure support (in terms of electricity, ports, and roads), inadequate R&D, 
pollution, and relatively high logistics costs plague the cluster. A Study of Andhra Pradesh Clusters 
(Joshi, 2020) shows that the labour-intensive manufacturing sectors, like Food Processing and 
textile and apparel, that currently build their competitiveness based on Government facilitation 
need labour management and a change of orientation to cater towards global markets. Capital 
as well as labour-intensive manufacturing sectors such as Minerals and Metals and Heavy 
Engineering, which are already embedded into the national value chain, should undertake a 
series of steps to elevate their competitiveness and integrate themselves into the global value 
chain. A study (Jhamb, 2016) which utilised Porter's model to analyse the different determinants 
of competitive advantage of the Sports Goods Cluster at Jalandhar concludes that the cluster 
mainly depends on factor conditions, i.e., raw material availability and skilled labour. Along with 
this, sophisticated customers, machinery suppliers and competitors enhance the cluster's growth. 
The study suggests that the cluster should focus on developing specialised and advanced factors 
and timely implementation of government policies to upgrade competitive advantage from 
fundamental factors of production. These national and international studies reveal that specific 
issues hindering growth within various industries can be discerned and effectively addressed 
through cluster analysis using the diamond model.
 
Porter also 
highlights the 
role of natural 
clusters that 
arise without 
significant 
government 
intervention.