--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C71
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 83 to Page 84
Word Range: 20344 - 20593
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 83]
83
Issues in the Scheme
This concern remained in the committee’s 68th report about “Action taken by the Government 
on the Observations/Recommendations contained in the Forty-Sixth Report (17th Lok Sabha) 
on the subject ‘Strengthening Credit Flows to the MSME Sector”.
The CGTMSE, operating as a registered trust, relies on a 4:1 ratio of contributions from the 
Government of India and SIDBI to its corpus fund. Member Lending Institutions (MLIs) must 
register and form a formal agreement with CGTMSE to access guarantees for MSE credit. MLIs 
include commercial banks that enter into an agreement CGTMSE and can apply guarantee 
cover in respect of eligible credit facility sanctioned to any eligible borrower11. However, 
procedural inefficiencies are evident.
These issues affect both the institutions and the MSMEs they serve. Institutions struggle with 
a lack of regulatory support and procedural consistency, leading to resource misallocation. 
Operational challenges include accountability lapses, delayed settlements, and a slow claim 
process. 
“Strengthening Credit Flows to the MSME Sector”, it was highlighted
In the 46th report of the Standing Committee on Finance (17th Lok Sabha) titled
that only a few MSME enterprises are 
managing to get collateral-free loans under 
the Government schemes, with majority being 
compelled to furnish adequate collateral even 
after being eligible for collateral-free loans. As 
more than 99 percent of the MSMEs belong 
to the micro sector they typically have no 
collateral to offer to banks.
11     https://www.cgtmse.in/Home/VS/94

[Page 84]
84
For MSMEs, the burden of high guarantee fees on top of already significant interest 
rates makes accessing the scheme costly. Recognising these challenges, experts have 
recommended increasing the guarantee cover, absorbing guarantee fees, streamlining 
procedures, and offering truly collateral-free loans under certain conditions. Responding to 
this, a restructured CGTMSE scheme was introduced in April 2023, with a notable ₹9,000 
crore boost from the Union Budget FY 2023-24 to guarantee an additional ₹2 lakh crore for 
MSEs. The scheme’s updates include halving the guarantee fees for loans up to ₹1 crore 
and reducing the minimum fee to 0.37% annually. The guarantee cap has been raised from 
₹2 crore to ₹5 crore, and the threshold for claim settlements without legal action has been 
increased to ₹10 lakh. ((Mund, 2020) (Anu & Lakshmisree, 2013; Anu & Lakshmisree, 2013)).
MSMEs also face NPA challenges, as RBI’s classification criteria (principal or interest payment 
remained overdue for 90 days) doesn’t align with the sector’s working capital cycle. Extending 
the classification period to 180 days, which takes into consideration the enterprise’s payment 
abilities and allows restructuring without downgrading accounts, can provide breathing space 
for MSMEs12 .
For CGTMSE to effectively address credit access challenges, a comprehensive policy 
framework with robust checks and balances is essential, enabling both borrowers and lenders 
to fully utilise the credit system.
Key Takeaways from other countries
In many developing nations in Asia and the Pacific, the credit system is mainly centred 
around banks, with nonbank financial institutions playing a minor role. The lack of credit 
infrastructure, such as credit and collateral registries, contributes to information imbalances 
that hinder credit access (Asian Development Bank, 2022).
In Asia’s developing countries, the primary institutional credit mechanism is Credit Guarantee 
Schemes (CGSs), which have effectively addressed information imbalances and expanded 
credit access for SMEs. These schemes share the default risk with financial institutions, 
allowing SMEs to navigate traditional credit assessments and institutional preferences.
When comparing India’s CGTMSE with similar schemes in other countries like Korea’s KODIT, 
Japan’s JFC, Malaysia’s CGCM, and Indonesia’s PUJKI, it’s evident that India’s CGTMSE has 
a smaller corpus or fund size. This smaller corpus has also increased at a slow pace and 
selective provision of services by the Indian CGS.  Some of these schemes have evolved 
into credit information bureaus, providing SMEs with reliable risk assessments, along with 
provision of services that facilitate access to finance and ensure efficient operations with 
strong risk management practices. In contrast, CGTMSE lacks additional support services for 
MSMEs and has limited direct interaction with them. (Asian Development Bank, 2022)
In Asia’s 
developing 
countries, 
the primary 
institutional 
credit 
mechanism 
is Credit 
Guarantee 
Schemes 
(CGSs), which 
have effectively 
addressed 
information 
imbalances and 
expanded credit 
access for 
SMEs.