--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C108
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 109
Word Range: 30338 - 30587
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 109]
109
Food Processing 
Cluster 
 » Agri-food policy actively directed at developing a link 
between production and processing is the need of 
the hour. For example, GoI efforts to put Millet Indian 
products on the global map
 » Maximise value added throughout the supply chain by 
improving current processes and through innovation. 
For Example: Combining goods-in-transit insurance 
with sensor-based cargo tracking devices can help 
reduce damage to property and goods in transit
 » Stagnant market share in food products; Need to 
diversify into other by-products -and develop other 
niche markets.
 » At the state level, branding guidance for agricultural 
products for MSME projects and food cluster formation 
is needed.
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in:
 » Food Processing and Manufacturing 
in Tinsukia, Dakshin. Bastar Dantewada, 
Kiphire, Mahoba
 » Local Food and Beverage Processing 
and Distribution This cluster is present 
in most of the districts of India.
It must be noted that regional 
specialisation is almost low and stagnant, 
as more than 60 % of districts have lower 
LQ, which lies between 2 and 0. Since 
it’s a traded cluster and employs most of 
the MSME sector, immediate steps are 
required to improve the productivity of this 
cluster across India.
Strengthening efforts in the northeastern 
and eastern belts of India are urgently 
needed. Due to the uniqueness and 
diversity of the food products, these belts 
demonstrate huge potential for integration 
in GVCs.
Chemical Cluster  » For SMEs involved in chemical products, the integrated 
ecosystem is crucial, but the biggest challenge is 
attracting and retaining skilled workers.
 » State governments should focus on expanding the 
pool of engineers and researchers through increased 
collaboration domestically and international students.
 » Due to their lower bargaining power, SMEs face higher 
barriers to regulatory and compliance efforts regarding 
products. To further minimise risk, compliance and 
regulatory efforts need to be streamlined.
 » Moreover, building stronger marketing capabilities is 
imperative to facilitate progress downstream in the 
value chain.
 » Investments in Industry 4.0, such as predictive 
maintenance, data analytics, and supply chain 
optimisation tools, can enhance productivity and 
reduce costs
 » Reducing dependence on imported raw materials, 
particularly from China, can be crucial for MSMEs. 
Exploring alternative domestic suppliers or developing 
more resilient supply chains can lower input costs.
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in:
 » Upstream Chemical Products in 
Bharuch, Gwalior, Gandhinagar, Medak, 
Nainital, Valsad, Palamu, Raigarh and 
Uttara Kannada, Samba, Palwal and 
Ujjain 
 » Downstream Chemical Products in 
Virudhunagar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Prayagraj, Bharuch, Karaikal, Sagar and 
Thoothukkudi
More focus must be placed on targeting 
MSMEs and strengthening their 
dominance in both sub-clusters.