--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C35
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 47
Word Range: 9485 - 9734
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 47]
47
Infrastructure7.
A deficiency in infrastructure support in developing nations challenges SMEs’ growth 
prospects (Olawale & Garwe, 2010). In India, inadequate infrastructure support is one of the 
major non-financial barriers faced by MSMEs (Singh & Paliwal, 2017). A major concern for the 
growth and development of MSMEs, as reported by the Small Industries Development Bank of 
India (SIDBI) in 2010, is the lack of infrastructure support. According to a survey by PHDCCI, 
the Indian MSME sector has identified several obstacles to business growth, including 
inadequate infrastructure, outdated labour laws, multiple taxes, and the uncooperative attitude 
of government officials (PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry , 2022). Furthermore, many 
MSMEs in rural and semi-urban areas still face a lack of essential infrastructure such as power, 
roads, and communication services, which hinders their efficiency and overall development.
Good and Service Tax (GST) has been one of the most impactful tax reforms in India. In the 
context of GST’s impact on MSME (Bhalla, Sharma, & Kaur, 2023) highlight the positive impact 
of the GST system on business performance, citing enhanced operational efficiency and 
transparency in the indirect tax structure. It also highlights the benefits of input tax credits and 
the prevention of stock leakages, which have contributed to improved MSME performance by 
reducing working capital blockages. While GST has these advantages and has increased tax 
neutrality, it also introduces challenges such as the need to reduce the basic exemption limit, 
differentiate tax rates for luxury goods and services, manage business costs, and decrease GST 
compliance expenses 
A brief overview of the research on other developing economies and tax compliance reveals a 
similar picture. Tax compliance of Indonesian SMEs is influenced by the probability of audit, tax 
knowledge, and the perception of equity and fairness (Inasius, 2018) . Turnover growth of SMEs 
in Cameroon is affected by tax regulations and the time required to comply with tax (Akinboade, 
2015) . In China, a positive relationship between tax compliance and digital finance was observed 
(Ouyang, Liu, & Li, 2023) . In Vietnam, corruption has a significant and negative effect on Tax 
compliance, as is the case in many developing nations (le et al, 2020, (Awasthi, 2011)
Tax compliance proves to be a vital determinant in the growth of SMEs and has a major multiplier 
effect. Not only from the point of view of competitiveness of MSMEs but tax compliance is an 
important factor contributing to the country's tax revenue (Sihombing, 2021) .Hence, as stated, 
revamping tax systems to account for the tax-to-turnover ratio of small enterprises, tax-paying 
abilities, industry structure, and administrative inefficiencies is necessary. 
Tax compliance proves to be a vital determinant in the growth of SMEs 
and has a major multiplier effect. Not only from the point of view of 
competitiveness of MSMEs but tax compliance is an important factor 
contributing to the country’s tax revenue