--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 52 to Page 56
Word Range: 10732 - 11978
Word Count: 1,247
--------------------

[Page 52]
52
Competitiveness 
Framework: 
Chapter 2 
MSMEs and the Path to Prosperity

[Page 53]
53
While the crucial role played by MSMEs in fostering shared prosperity is widely 
recognised, both government and business leaders continue to grapple with the 
question of how to effectively address the challenges hampering SME development 
and competitiveness. This acknowledgement is coupled with the acceptance of 
various challenges MSMEs face that impede their growth and competitiveness.  The 
urgency of addressing longstanding challenges such as limited access to credit 
markets, inadequate market linkages, and outdated technology has become even more 
pronounced (Daño-Luna, Maribel, & Francisco, 2018). This heightened urgency is driven 
by the evolving structure of the marketplace, the constraints posed by limited resources, 
the management capabilities (Deniz, 2013), (Hautz, 2014), and the ongoing need for 
continuous capacity building. In this context, improving competitiveness emerges as the 
sole pathway to survival (Chobanyan & Laurence, 2006).
Emerging in the 1980s, the concept of competitiveness was studied by Buckley, 
Pass, and Prescott (1988) by examining extant literature which reveals the difficulty 
in measuring competitiveness at the levels of country, industry, firm, and product 
(Buckley, 1988). Michael Porter (1990), in his book ‘The Competitive Advantage of 
Nations’, outlined a new approach to competitiveness. A concept that was approached 
mainly through a macroeconomic lens or a focus on resources inherent to a location, 
took on a productivity-based framework in this seminal work.  This break-away from 
other conceptions of competitiveness emphasized that it is not about what a location 
possesses, but how productively the firm or the nation uses available resources. 
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic capabilities in the national 
business environment where firms compete, without which the broader macro-framework 
would not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in the Indian business 
scenario which harbours a majority of small enterprises. The expectations and actions of 
firms, customers, suppliers, and associated institutions must be taken into consideration. 
The competitiveness framework thrust on assessing microeconomic foundations of 
economic activity will help in capturing this aspect. 
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic 
capabilities in the national business environment where firms 
compete, without which the broader macro-framework would 
not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in 
the Indian business scenario which harbours a majority of small 
enterprises.

[Page 54]
54
This approach transcends the mere geographic proximity of producers or industries. It 
considers the interconnections between diverse firms and institutions within a given location. 
Porter’s 
Diamond 
Model
&
The Microeconomic pillar is composed of two essential components 
The presence of related and 
supporting industries. 
The quality of the business 
environment in the nation
Using the diamond model as a tool to measure national competitiveness, Porter has proposed 
a competitiveness gauge to assess the business environment of a nation or a firm. The 
diamond model is, thus, an integral aspect of the microeconomic pillar of the competitiveness 
framework (Ketels, 2017). This model comprehensively considers factor conditions, demand 
conditions, related and supporting industries, the structure of strategy, and rivalry. These 
factors make up the national environment where companies are born and learn how to 
compete.
Firm strategy, Structure 
and Rivalry
Related and supporting 
industries
Factor Conditions Demand Conditions
Source: Michael Porter, On Competition, 1990
Factor Conditions encompass a nation's intrinsic resources and capabilities, spanning 
skilled labor, infrastructure, and natural resources. The quality and quantity of these 
factors intricately shape the overall competitiveness of a country. Demand Conditions, 
another facet of the model, pivot on the nature and extent of demand within the domestic 
market, acting as catalysts for innovation and product development. A sophisticated and 
demanding local market serves as a driving force, compelling firms to enhance their offerings 
through continuous improvement and innovation. The aspect of Related and Supporting 
Industries underscores the significance of robust, interconnected industries and supportive 
infrastructure, collectively contributing to the competitiveness of a particular industry. The

[Page 55]
55
Macroeconomic Policy
Microeconomic Policy DIAMOND 
CLUSTER
Firm Level (Large Enterprises 
MSMEs etc)
synergy among these industries within clusters creates a mutually reinforcing environment, 
fostering overall competitiveness. Lastly, Firm Strategy, Structure, and Rivalry delineate the 
conditions governing the creation, organization, and management of companies, coupled 
with the intensity of domestic competition. The presence of vigorous domestic competition is 
highlighted for its potential to spur innovation and operational efficiency among firms. Each 
factor in this model and the interplay of the four together affect essential ingredients for 
achieving international competitive success. Some economies have an interplay of these four 
factors that harbours an environment conducive to growth for certain companies. 
The diamond model provides nuanced insights into the dynamics of competitiveness. 
Transitioning from this microeconomic perspective, the overarching business environment 
illustrated in the figure below, exerts deterministic forces originating from historical, 
geographical, and culturally-bound institutions (1). In contrast, policy choices provide 
opportunities for citizens to actively sculpt the future of their society. On the economic front, 
macroeconomic policies (2) wield influence over the general business environment, while 
microeconomic policies (3), inclusive of cluster initiatives designed to optimize the functioning 
of the microeconomic "engine," directly impact the diamond and clusters. Furthermore, 
strategies formulated within firms and entrepreneurial activities (4) serve as proactive forces 
that significantly contribute to shaping both clusters and society at large (Sölvell, Lindqvist, & 
Ketels, 2003). This interconnected framework underscores the symbiotic relationship between 
macroeconomic forces, microeconomic dynamics, and entrepreneurial endeavors in driving 
national competitiveness.
Source: The Cluster Initiative Greenbook (modified version)
We move forth to understand the other essential component of the microeconomic aspect of 
competitiveness – i.e., Related and Supporting Industries or the presence of clusters in the 
next section.  
General Business Environment
3
2
1
4

[Page 56]
56
Clusters 
Concept 
Evolution 
Cluster 
Approach: 
Unravelling 
Divergences 
in Adoption in 
India 
The role of clusters in enhancing the competitiveness at firm level (including MSMEs is 
exceedingly important particularly in the current era of globalization. It was first mentioned 
by Alfred Marshall, who laid the foundation for understanding the externalities within clusters 
(Marshall, 1920). Post this various models, such as the Collective Efficiency Model (Schmitz, 
1995), Flexible Specialization Model ,and Diamond Model (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New 
Economies of Competition, 1998) were employed for the analysis of clusters (Neven & Dröge, 
2001). 
There are differences in each model: Piore and Sabel’s Flexible Specialization Model views 
a cluster as an industrial district comprised of small enterprises engaged in a complex 
network of competition and cooperation, emphasizing value creation, holistic approaches, 
and the dynamic aspects of the cluster. Each model contributes unique insights, collectively 
enriching the understanding of clusters in diverse contexts. In contrast, Schmitz’s Collective 
Efficiency Model conceptualizes a cluster as a group of producers engaged in similar activities 
in close proximity, focusing on factor conditions, demand conditions, externalities, joint action, 
flexibility, economies of scope, innovation, and product differentiation.  Whereas Porter’s 
Diamond Model defines a cluster as a network of interconnected firms and institutions in 
a specific field located within a particular geographical area, emphasizing firm strategy, 
structure, rivalry, factor conditions, demand conditions, and related and supporting industries. 
Out of all models, Porter’s definition of cluster has found extensive application in advanced 
economies but has been notably overlooked in research on developing nations7.  
While acknowledging the advantages, the Government of India 
has initiated cluster-forming endeavours and devised strategies 
to amplify this ecosystem’s scale for MSMEs. The Ministry of 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Government of 
India (GoI) has adopted the Cluster Development approach 
as a key strategy for enhancing the productivity and 
competitiveness as well as capacity building of Micro 
and Small Enterprises (MSEs) and their collectives in 
the country.