--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 13
Word Range: 1 - 250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 1]
1
Draft
Enhancing MSMEs Competitiveness in India

[Page 2]
Disclaimer
Authors
This report was prepared by the Institute for Competitiveness for NITI Aayog. The Institute for Competitiveness did 
not receive financial assistance under the NITI Aayog research scheme to prepare it. The NITI Aayog logo indicates 
collaboration and acknowledgement of the work’s relevance for the MSME policy domain. However, NITI Aayog does 
not endorse or assume responsibility for the report’s findings and conclusions. All data cited, including that from 
verified Government sources such as the PLFS and the UDYAM Portal, have been interpreted solely by the Institute for 
Competitiveness. While due care has been exercised to ensure the accuracy of the analysis and arguments supported 
by existing literature, the possibility of alternate interpretations, especially as the MSME database evolves, cannot be 
ruled out.
Amit Kapoor
Honorary Chairman,
Institute for Competitiveness
Sheen Zutshi
Research Manager,
Institute for Competitiveness
Mukul Anand
Researcher,
Institute for Competitiveness

[Page 3]
Competitiveness 
in India
Enhancing MSMEs

[Page 5]
5
MESSAGE

[Page 7]
MESSAGE

[Page 9]
9
MESSAGE

[Page 11]
11
MESSAGEMESSAGE

[Page 13]
AMIT KAPOOR
Honorary Chairman, 
Institute for Competitiveness
MSMEs form the backbone of India’s economic landscape and serve as the cradle of entrepreneurship. They 
encompass a diverse spectrum- from traditional artisans and craftspersons with legacies spanning decades to cutting-
edge defence and advanced engineering enterprises. These businesses preserve the nation’s rich heritage and lay the 
groundwork for a dynamic future. To bridge this rich legacy with the challenges of the present, it is essential to delve 
into the factors shaping MSME competitiveness and identify pathways to overcome these barriers for sustained growth 
and innovation.
The central tenet of this study is to unravel the complexities of MSME competitiveness. MSMEs face challenges 
that, if addressed, can unlock significant growth. High-risk perception and costs limit formal lending to MSMEs. 
Inadequate finance hinders R&D investment and upgrades. Many SMEs lack access to global technology and struggle 
with domestic innovations due to limited resources and high costs. MSMEs struggle to access capacity-building 
opportunities due to financial illiteracy, skill gaps, and lack of awareness of government initiatives. Most MSMEs operate 
informally, restricting their access to finance and global markets. They face difficulties in branding and understanding 
market trends, which limits expansion, leaving them vulnerable to market fluctuations due to weak branding and limited 
product variety.
Focusing on MSMEs in five key sectors- automotive, textile manufacturing, chemical, pharmaceutical, and food 
processing this study employs a cluster-based approach to analyse the performance of MSMEs in India. By integrating 
firm-level data from CMIE’s Prowess database with labour force data from the PLFS and utilising Porter’s Diamond 
model alongside NIC codes, the research offers a comprehensive view of MSMEs’ economic structure, cluster 
distribution in India, and regional strengths. This analysis is enriched by an evaluation of the MSME policy framework at 
both national and state levels, assessing its effectiveness and regional coordination to better understand the collective 
impact of these policies. This combined approach bridges gaps in existing literature, providing actionable insights for 
designing targeted cluster programs and policies to foster MSME growth, innovation, and sustainability.
I extend my heartfelt gratitude to Shri Ishtiyaque Ahmed, Senior Adviser (Industry & Foreign Investment), and his 
team at Vertical Industry/MSME at NITI Aayog for their support throughout the preparation of this report. I also 
thank Shri Suman Bery, Vice Chairperson of NITI Aayog, and Shri B. V. R. Subrahmanyam, CEO of NITI Aayog, for 
their encouragement, which has been instrumental in shaping the focus of this study. Finally, I would also like to 
acknowledge the entire Research Team at the Institute for Competitiveness (IFC) for their critical input and tireless 
efforts, which have helped immensely to give this report its present shape. This report, in its current form, is a 
testament to the commitment and collaborative efforts of everyone involved, ensuring its relevance and meaningful 
impact for all stakeholders.
MESSAGE