--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C90
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 97 to Page 98
Word Range: 25386 - 25635
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 97]
97
C. Technological Development in MSMEs
i. Enhancing Supply Chains
Enhancing supply chain linkages for the technological development of MSMEs is critical to 
improving their efficiency, competitiveness, and global participation. Governments play a 
pivotal role in this process by fostering collaborative initiatives across sectors, strengthening 
supply chain integration, and addressing key impediments to growth. Here are several reasons 
why this is essential:
Efficient supply chains enable MSMEs to integrate into GVCs, facilitating their involvement 
in international trade. Despite progress, India’s GVC participation (40.3% of gross trade in 
2022) lags behind not only major economies like the USA (43.7%) and Japan (46.6%) but also 
regional competitors like South Korea (56.2%) and Malaysia (60%) as per Economic Survey 
2024. Enhancing supply chain linkages can help bridge this gap, fostering economic growth 
and global competitiveness. Supply chains act as critical drivers for increasing the Gross Value 
Addition (GVA) of MSMEs by streamlining operations and reducing inefficiencies. Investments 
in supply chain technology, such as electronic linkages in the textile industry, can lead to 
process innovation, better quality control, and improved product management, thus boosting 
GVA and operational efficiency. Pressure within supply chains significantly impacts prices, 
especially for essential commodities like food. By addressing bottlenecks and enhancing 
supply chain efficiency, governments can help stabilize food prices, a crucial factor in ensuring 
food and nutrition security. Complex supply chains influence competitive export pricing, 
even within domestic markets. By simplifying procedures, improving trade infrastructure, and 
facilitating trade measures, MSMEs can offer globally competitive pricing, enhancing their 
export potential. Targeted government initiatives can unlock sectoral potential. For instance, 
investments in electronic supply chain infrastructure in textiles and government support for 
MSMEs in food processing through trade fairs and export promotion programs can drive 
innovation, quality improvement, and market access. Agriculture and allied sectors, integral to 
India’s economy, face challenges like climate change and resource sustainability. 
Occupational standards tailored to MSME needs should be created and regularly updated to 
ensure relevance and quality. Further, boards or councils which continually review and update 
training curricula to keep pace with industry changes and technological advancements should 
be created. 
To upskill and train, affordable and more accessible cost-sharing models can be explored. 
These can also be explored by providing grants to micro-enterprises that can offset the costs 
of training and technology adoption initiatives. They can also include options for training 
existing and new employees.
The government in Andhra Pradesh recently proposed an important initiative: a Skill Census. 
Such an exercise can comprehensively assess current skill levels across the state’s regions and 
sectors. All states can undertake this activity. This will help map out the exact skills that are 
deficient and in line with industry demands at a granular level. 
The government 
in Andhra 
Pradesh recently 
proposed an 
important 
initiative: a Skill 
Census.

[Page 98]
98
Enhancing supply chain infrastructure in agriculture, horticulture, and food processing can 
help unlock employment potential, sustain food security, and support adaptation efforts in the 
face of geopolitical and technological threats to manufacturing and services.
ii. Enhance Risk Management through Digital and Insurance Solutions
iii. Integrating AI in MSMEs
Indian MSMEs must be introduced to affordable, digital risk management solutions that 
help businesses track supply chains, monitor inventory, and manage logistics in real time. 
Technologies such as sensor-based tracking for goods or automation tools for inventory 
management can reduce operational risks. It will require developing tailored insurance 
products that combine traditional risk transfer with innovative digital tools (e.g., IoT -based 
risk monitoring) for MSMEs to be encouraged to adopt insurance solutions that protect them 
against economic shocks, such as pandemics or natural disasters. For beverages and food-
related value chains in Malaysia and Thailand, insurance combined with sensor-based cargo 
tracking devices has proved to be an important and holistic resilience solution to reduce the 
risk of damage to property and goods in transit states a report about MSME resilience in 
Thailand and Malaysia by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). These solutions 
not only mitigate risks but also address them and help to build further customised solutions, 
especially for distribution partners or aggregators. Further, MSMEs must be educated on 
the importance of digital tools and insurance for business continuity and growth. Insurance 
providers and tech firms can partner to offer training and affordable packages to enhance 
MSMEs’ resilience.
Integrating Artificial Intelligence (AI) into MSMEs presents multiple challenges that hinder 
widespread adoption, as per a joint study by Nasscom and Meta . Many MSMEs struggle to 
understand and comply with India’s data protection laws. This lack of awareness makes it 
difficult for businesses to manage data responsibly and comply with legal requirements. Also, 
MSMEs need better guidance on complying with legal frameworks while integrating 
AI. Lack of clear understanding of the legal landscape can result in unintentional 
non-compliance. MSMEs should receive accessible, simplified guides and training 
programs on data protection 
laws. The government and 
industry bodies can create 
awareness campaigns 
and offer workshops 
to help 
businesses