--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C37
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 48
Word Range: 9988 - 10298
Word Count: 311
--------------------

[Page 48]
48
Inadequate infrastructure is one of the key reasons why MSMEs in India, despite being 
competitive have failed to establish themselves in the global market. They continue to face 
bottlenecks due to a lack of adequate transportation facilities like railways, waterways, 
roadways and airways, high cost of transportation, poor public transport, low/no access to a 
reliable power supply, poor drainage systems, lack of proper communication channels, lack 
of appropriate storage facilities, inadequate marketing facilities, lack of funds, and so on. 
(Prakash, Kumar, & Verma, 2021) (Singh & Paliwal, 2017)
The Ministry of Micro and Small Enterprises has actively participated in this regard, and there 
have been various attempts by the government to create infrastructure-focused schemes 
(such as the Infrastructure Development Programme, Scheme of Fund for Regeneration 
of Traditional Industries, and so on). In 1998 it established ‘The Integrated Technology 
Upgradation and Management Programme’ (UPTECH). This policy was revised twice and later 
renamed “Micro and Small Enterprises – Cluster Development Programme (MSE – CDP)” in 
2010. The scheme has a cluster-based approach to highlight the needs and requirements 
of a sector. This scheme aimed to develop market-linked infrastructure development where 
development facilities and centralised distribution are in collaboration with state governments, 
setting up exhibition centres and establishing testing centres to tap the international markets. 
This initiative, which spans across various clusters throughout India, ensures the maintenance 
of product quality for both domestic production and international export.
Even though such forward-looking initiatives have been undertaken, the implementation of 
these policies has been inefficient.  A need for revising policy objectives according to the 
changing dynamics, accountability and convergence in all tiers of government with respect 
to the administration and implementation of these policies is crucial. A collaboration between 
private and public stakeholders for expansion and diversification of resources will make 
policies holistic in their approach as well as increase their impact on the economy.