--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 28
Word Range: 3778 - 4171
Word Count: 394
--------------------

[Page 28]
28
GVCs are crucial for engaging with the global market, by concentrating on the development 
of specialised products and specialising in particular segments of the production chain. 
Furthermore, GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange of investment, 
knowledge, and managerial practices that are in line with global standards, thereby 
significantly bolstering domestic businesses. Gaining access to these globally recognised best 
practices offers emerging economies unparalleled prospects for growth and the augmentation 
of their export capabilities. (Mitra, Gupta, & Sanganeria, 2020)  
However, India remains a fringe player in GVC. 
India’s impact remains modest, representing only 
1.5% of global GVC exports or $241 billion as of 2017, with 
the largest share, about 10%, heading to the United States. Other key destinations 
include Singapore (6.7%) , the People’s Republic of China(4.6%), and several European 
countries. Exports to the US are largely in chemicals and metals, while exports to 
China are predominantly raw materials. In contrast, services such as equipment rental 
and transportation are the main GVC exports to Singapore. Additionally, India’s exports to 
the European Union are diverse, ranging from metals to machinery rental services, as well as 
textiles and electronics being significant GVC exports. (Mitra, Gupta, & Sanganeria, 2020). 
With approximately 63 million Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) operating 
in India, predominantly within sectors at the forefront of Global Value Chain (GVC) exports, 
their integration into these chains is very important. However, they encounter a multitude 
of challenges that hinder their ability to enter or advance within a value chain. MSMEs in 
developing countries frequently find themselves constrained to lower value-added stages of 
production due to the prohibitive investment and expertise required for more sophisticated 
operations, risking functional downgrading or being perpetually confined to less profitable 
niches. Additionally, while ascending a value chain presents more favorable opportunities for 
learning and growth, it simultaneously imposes steeper entry barriers. These include stringent 
quality standards, and the need for speed and adaptability, making it crucial for smaller firms 
in these nations to align swiftly with the escalating demands. 
India’s role in the global 
economy has more than 
doubled, from a
contribution to world 
output in 1990 to
in 2017.
1.4%
3.2%
India remains 
a fringe player 
in GVC. India’s 
impact remains 
modest, 
representing 
only 1.5% of 
global GVC 
exports or $241 
billion as of 2017, 
with the largest 
share, about 10%, 
heading to the 
United States.