--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 45 to Page 47
Word Range: 8249 - 9477
Word Count: 1,229
--------------------

[Page 45]
45
Product Diversification5.
Lack of diversification and innovation in product design is a key deterrent to MSME growth in 
India.  Indian MSMEs with diversified products and services witnessed a growth in customer 
base by 18%, as compared to players with limited diversification. Despite this, a lack of 
awareness of market trends, lack of technical knowledge for product diversification, and the 
high investment cost required in machinery, skilling, and marketing discourage MSMEs from 
diversifying (Mitra, Nikore, & Gupta, 2021)
India’s SMEs have been unable to establish a distinct brand value, internationalise their 
products and establish themselves as important players in the value chain. Excessive costs of 
product development, lack of effective selling techniques, unsophisticated marketing, lack of 
market research, and lack of funds for implementing expensive software, projects themselves 
as major barriers to SME competitiveness. (March-Chorda, 2002), (Xiong, 20016)). These 
barriers lead SMEs to remain local and distanced from GVCs, as they produce low-technology 
products (Pradhan & Das, 2013) that have low profitability and are misaligned with market 
needs.
Strategies that address the issues relating to complex regulations, accessibility to finance, 
infrastructure, and export promotion which can be employed at both individual and national 
levels are necessary. A simplified regulatory framework, good governance, accessible finance, 
proper infrastructure, and availability of foreign market information will help SMEs in the 
promotion of their products (Bonga, 2017) . It is imperative to gain a thorough understanding 
of the competitive landscape, market analysis, and regulatory aspects in both domestic and 
global markets. This knowledge will enable MSMEs to diversify their products and establish a 
presence in both national and international markets.
Despite government efforts to boost small-scale industries, technological stagnation persists, 
hindering the sector’s progress (Bhavani, 2002).
In many developing nations, a substantial proportion of small and micro businesses are 
established out of necessity for mere survival. In such cases, entrepreneurial spirit is one of 
the key factors in the survival of enterprises, as it enables businesses to adapt to evolving 
economic circumstances (Ligthelm, 2010) . In order to adapt to market dynamics, maintain 
competitiveness, and enable the enterprise to navigate market complexities, entrepreneurial 
behaviour and organizational innovation have a significant impact on overall performance 
and enable enterprises to adapt to market dynamics, maintain competitiveness, and navigate 
market complexities (Oyong, 2019).  
Understanding the associations between technology and innovation and engaging in 
coordinated actions between technology and innovation will fortify the competitiveness of 
SMEs.

[Page 46]
46
Tax compliance6.
Taxes and the economy are closely interconnected, and whenever there is a significant change 
in the tax system, it becomes crucial to assess its impact on the relevant industry and the 
associated businesses (Bhalla, Sharma, & Kaur, 2023).
A recent Enterprise Survey Study (World Bank, 2022) revealed that tax rates and compliance 
was one of the top three business environment constraints for small, medium and large 
enterprises, with its prominence as a constraint having risen from 2014 to 2022. This barrier 
is clearly reflected in the imbalance in GST tax revenue. As of June 2023, Proprietorships that 
form a maximum of 80.41% taxpayer base contribute only roughly 13.32% of the total revenue 
from GST (GSTN, 2023).
It is evident that tax systems for MSMEs should be designed to align tax compliance 
requirements with the capacity of SMEs. The tax system for SMEs should minimise compliance 
costs and enhance accessibility on the MSME end and should be easy to administer and 
implement on the authorities’ side ((Ponorica & Al- Saedi), (Awasthi, 2011)). Tax compliance 
brings more enterprises into the formal sectors, providing better access to finance, and 
opportunities for collaboration. (World Bank, 2011). 
This restructuring is especially important in India as most SMEs perceive the tax system to 
be unfair and inequitable, and tend to stay out of the formal economy. The simplification of 
income tax procedures for SMEs, informed by past experiences, perceived fairness, taxpayers’ 
ability, taxpayer feedback, and lessons from other tax systems, is recommended to form a solid 
foundation for sound tax policy decisions ((Gabriela and Juhi (2015), (Awasthi, 2011), (Ponorica 
& Al- Saedi), (Musimenta , Muhwezi, & Akankunda, 2017)). 
It is evident 
that tax 
systems for 
MSMEs should 
be designed 
to align tax 
compliance 
requirements 
with the 
capacity of 
SMEs.
Contribution to 
GST Revenue 
from Different 
Constitutions of 
Business
Fig. 6
Public Sector 
Undertaking
Public Limited 
Company
Limited Liability 
Partnership
Society/Club/
Trust/AOP
Private Limited 
Company
Partnership
Proprietorship
Others
Source- GSTN, 2024
Percentage of 
Taxpayers
Percentage 
of Collection
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 90%80%
0.02%
9.94%
0.52%
34.40%
0.80%
1.20%
0.88%
1.40%
0.93%
4.14%
6.11%
28.32%
10.34% 7.27%
13.32%
80.41%

[Page 47]
47
Infrastructure7.
A deficiency in infrastructure support in developing nations challenges SMEs’ growth 
prospects (Olawale & Garwe, 2010). In India, inadequate infrastructure support is one of the 
major non-financial barriers faced by MSMEs (Singh & Paliwal, 2017). A major concern for the 
growth and development of MSMEs, as reported by the Small Industries Development Bank of 
India (SIDBI) in 2010, is the lack of infrastructure support. According to a survey by PHDCCI, 
the Indian MSME sector has identified several obstacles to business growth, including 
inadequate infrastructure, outdated labour laws, multiple taxes, and the uncooperative attitude 
of government officials (PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry , 2022). Furthermore, many 
MSMEs in rural and semi-urban areas still face a lack of essential infrastructure such as power, 
roads, and communication services, which hinders their efficiency and overall development.
Good and Service Tax (GST) has been one of the most impactful tax reforms in India. In the 
context of GST’s impact on MSME (Bhalla, Sharma, & Kaur, 2023) highlight the positive impact 
of the GST system on business performance, citing enhanced operational efficiency and 
transparency in the indirect tax structure. It also highlights the benefits of input tax credits and 
the prevention of stock leakages, which have contributed to improved MSME performance by 
reducing working capital blockages. While GST has these advantages and has increased tax 
neutrality, it also introduces challenges such as the need to reduce the basic exemption limit, 
differentiate tax rates for luxury goods and services, manage business costs, and decrease GST 
compliance expenses 
A brief overview of the research on other developing economies and tax compliance reveals a 
similar picture. Tax compliance of Indonesian SMEs is influenced by the probability of audit, tax 
knowledge, and the perception of equity and fairness (Inasius, 2018) . Turnover growth of SMEs 
in Cameroon is affected by tax regulations and the time required to comply with tax (Akinboade, 
2015) . In China, a positive relationship between tax compliance and digital finance was observed 
(Ouyang, Liu, & Li, 2023) . In Vietnam, corruption has a significant and negative effect on Tax 
compliance, as is the case in many developing nations (le et al, 2020, (Awasthi, 2011)
Tax compliance proves to be a vital determinant in the growth of SMEs and has a major multiplier 
effect. Not only from the point of view of competitiveness of MSMEs but tax compliance is an 
important factor contributing to the country's tax revenue (Sihombing, 2021) .Hence, as stated, 
revamping tax systems to account for the tax-to-turnover ratio of small enterprises, tax-paying 
abilities, industry structure, and administrative inefficiencies is necessary. 
Tax compliance proves to be a vital determinant in the growth of SMEs 
and has a major multiplier effect. Not only from the point of view of 
competitiveness of MSMEs but tax compliance is an important factor 
contributing to the country’s tax revenue