--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C33
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 45
Word Range: 8729 - 9126
Word Count: 398
--------------------

[Page 45]
45
Product Diversification5.
Lack of diversification and innovation in product design is a key deterrent to MSME growth in 
India.  Indian MSMEs with diversified products and services witnessed a growth in customer 
base by 18%, as compared to players with limited diversification. Despite this, a lack of 
awareness of market trends, lack of technical knowledge for product diversification, and the 
high investment cost required in machinery, skilling, and marketing discourage MSMEs from 
diversifying (Mitra, Nikore, & Gupta, 2021)
India’s SMEs have been unable to establish a distinct brand value, internationalise their 
products and establish themselves as important players in the value chain. Excessive costs of 
product development, lack of effective selling techniques, unsophisticated marketing, lack of 
market research, and lack of funds for implementing expensive software, projects themselves 
as major barriers to SME competitiveness. (March-Chorda, 2002), (Xiong, 20016)). These 
barriers lead SMEs to remain local and distanced from GVCs, as they produce low-technology 
products (Pradhan & Das, 2013) that have low profitability and are misaligned with market 
needs.
Strategies that address the issues relating to complex regulations, accessibility to finance, 
infrastructure, and export promotion which can be employed at both individual and national 
levels are necessary. A simplified regulatory framework, good governance, accessible finance, 
proper infrastructure, and availability of foreign market information will help SMEs in the 
promotion of their products (Bonga, 2017) . It is imperative to gain a thorough understanding 
of the competitive landscape, market analysis, and regulatory aspects in both domestic and 
global markets. This knowledge will enable MSMEs to diversify their products and establish a 
presence in both national and international markets.
Despite government efforts to boost small-scale industries, technological stagnation persists, 
hindering the sector’s progress (Bhavani, 2002).
In many developing nations, a substantial proportion of small and micro businesses are 
established out of necessity for mere survival. In such cases, entrepreneurial spirit is one of 
the key factors in the survival of enterprises, as it enables businesses to adapt to evolving 
economic circumstances (Ligthelm, 2010) . In order to adapt to market dynamics, maintain 
competitiveness, and enable the enterprise to navigate market complexities, entrepreneurial 
behaviour and organizational innovation have a significant impact on overall performance 
and enable enterprises to adapt to market dynamics, maintain competitiveness, and navigate 
market complexities (Oyong, 2019).  
Understanding the associations between technology and innovation and engaging in 
coordinated actions between technology and innovation will fortify the competitiveness of 
SMEs.