--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C91
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 98
Word Range: 25636 - 25969
Word Count: 334
--------------------

[Page 98]
98
Enhancing supply chain infrastructure in agriculture, horticulture, and food processing can 
help unlock employment potential, sustain food security, and support adaptation efforts in the 
face of geopolitical and technological threats to manufacturing and services.
ii. Enhance Risk Management through Digital and Insurance Solutions
iii. Integrating AI in MSMEs
Indian MSMEs must be introduced to affordable, digital risk management solutions that 
help businesses track supply chains, monitor inventory, and manage logistics in real time. 
Technologies such as sensor-based tracking for goods or automation tools for inventory 
management can reduce operational risks. It will require developing tailored insurance 
products that combine traditional risk transfer with innovative digital tools (e.g., IoT -based 
risk monitoring) for MSMEs to be encouraged to adopt insurance solutions that protect them 
against economic shocks, such as pandemics or natural disasters. For beverages and food-
related value chains in Malaysia and Thailand, insurance combined with sensor-based cargo 
tracking devices has proved to be an important and holistic resilience solution to reduce the 
risk of damage to property and goods in transit states a report about MSME resilience in 
Thailand and Malaysia by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). These solutions 
not only mitigate risks but also address them and help to build further customised solutions, 
especially for distribution partners or aggregators. Further, MSMEs must be educated on 
the importance of digital tools and insurance for business continuity and growth. Insurance 
providers and tech firms can partner to offer training and affordable packages to enhance 
MSMEs’ resilience.
Integrating Artificial Intelligence (AI) into MSMEs presents multiple challenges that hinder 
widespread adoption, as per a joint study by Nasscom and Meta . Many MSMEs struggle to 
understand and comply with India’s data protection laws. This lack of awareness makes it 
difficult for businesses to manage data responsibly and comply with legal requirements. Also, 
MSMEs need better guidance on complying with legal frameworks while integrating 
AI. Lack of clear understanding of the legal landscape can result in unintentional 
non-compliance. MSMEs should receive accessible, simplified guides and training 
programs on data protection 
laws. The government and 
industry bodies can create 
awareness campaigns 
and offer workshops 
to help 
businesses