--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 66 to Page 72
Word Range: 3699 - 5052
Word Count: 1,354
--------------------

[Page 66]
64
options such as monthly, quarterly, or half-yearly 
instalments 
Interest Equalisation 
Scheme (IES) 
• Provides interest rate subsidy of 2-3%, to
exporters for pre- and post-shipment credit. This
scheme focuses on manufacturers in certain MSME
focused sector.
Credit Guarantee 
Scheme for 
Subordinate Debt 
• Promoter(s) of the MSMEs are given credit equal
to 50% of their stake (equity plus debt) or Rs. 75
lakh whichever is lower.
• Debt - 90% guarantee coverage would come from
scheme/ Trust (CGTMSE) and remaining 10% from
the concerned promoter(s).
• 1.50% per annum on the guaranteed amount on
outstanding basis, as guarantee fee to be borne by
the exporter.
• There can be a moratorium of 7 years (maximum)
on the payment of principal. However, interest will
be paid as and when applied.
• Ease in repayment, after completion of moratorium
period, principal shall be fully repaid within the tenor
of loan (as per sanction) in form of Principal Equally
Distributed (PED)
Export Credit Re-
Financing (ECR) 
• ECR is a scheme, by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) to provide short-term credit to banks and
financial institutions for export credit at the
prevailing repo rate under the Liquidity Adjustment
Facility (LAF)
• Scheduled Banks extend this facility at Repo Rate
and adding a Credit Risk Premium and Spread
close to 3-4%.

[Page 67]
65
• The scheme aims to increase the availability of
credit to exporters and to support export
growth.
Table 4: Initiatives to support market access 
Initiative Description 
Market Access Initiative 
(MAI) 
• Reimbursement regarding participation support
to the regular Director/Partner/Proprietor or a
regular officer of the company on senior managerial
position, except a foreign national, in terms of flight
ticket reimbursement.
• Provided to the maximum of three MAI events in a
year, per member participant company.
• Support to conduct Market and Research
Studies, Joint Events, Reverse Buyer-Seller Meet
(RBSMs).
• Support to upgrade marketing and branding
ability for the MSMEs.
• Capacity Building Support of Exports, in terms
of Standards, Regulations, etc.
International 
Cooperation Scheme 
• Reimbursement for MSMEs in participation in
international exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-
seller meet in foreign countries (physical and
virtual) for space rent, up to 100% with the
maximum of Rs. 1.00 lakh or actual rent paid,
whichever is lower (for one representative from
each participating enterprise).
• Deputation of MSME Business Delegations to
foreign countries, which includes Air Fare, and

[Page 68]
66
Duty Allowance of up to $150 per day on 
reimbursement basis, which includes export 
promotion organisation as well as other MSMEs. 
Procurement and 
Marketing Support 
(PMS) 
• Participation of Individual MSEs in domestic
Exhibition/ Trade Fair
• Developing capacity of MSMEs in Development of
Marketing Haats, adoption of modern packaging
technique, bar code and e-commerce platform
• Organizing events like Domestic Trade Fair&
Exhibition/ Awareness programs/ National &
International Workshops & Seminars/ Vendor
• Development Programs. Development of retail
outlet
Table 5: Initiatives to create a favorable business environment 
Initiative Description 
Scheme of Fund for 
Regeneration of 
Traditional Industries 
(SFURTI) 
• The financial assistance provided for a specific
project has a ceiling of Rs. 2.5 crore for Regular
Cluster (up to 500 artisans) and a ceiling of Rs.
5 crores for Major Cluster (more than 500
artisans)
• Aims to organize traditional industries and
artisans into collectives by increasing production
and value addition to make products competitive
• Setting up of production facility with latest
machinery.
• Build general awareness, counselling, skill
development and capacity building, exposure

[Page 69]
67
visits, market development initiatives, design 
and product development, etc. 
• Creation of common facility centres, raw material
banks, upgradation of production infrastructure,
warehousing facility, tools and technological
upgradation, etc.
• Marketing connects and Brand Building, e -
commerce, and Exposure Visits.
Micro & Small 
Enterprises Cluster 
Development 
Programme (MSE-CDP) 
• Creating Common Facility Centers including
Plug & Play Facilities.
• Support for Flatted Factory Complexes and
Infrastructure Development Projects.
• Assistance up to 80% of the maximum project
cost of Rs. 30 crores  for creation of Common
Facility Centre such as common
production/processing center, design center,
testing facilities including plug and play facilities
• Assistance up to 70% of the maximum Project
cost of Rs. 15 crores for development of land,
roads, drainage, power distribution etc. in
new/existing industrial (multi -product)
areas/estates/Flatted Factory Complex
Trade Infrastructure for 
Export Scheme 
• The Central Government helps with
infrastructure development in the form of grant -
in-aid, wherein they contribute approximately
50% of the total equity in the project. However,
in NE and Hill States, including the Union
Territory of J&K and Ladakh, this contribution
increases to 80%.

[Page 70]
68 
• Furthermore, in states that have relatively poor
export infrastructure and lack institutional
capacity for preparing good Detailed Project
Reports (DPRs), but possess positive export
potential, the grant can reach up to 80% of the
total equity.
• The maximum limit for grant -in-aid is set at Rs.
20 crore per infrastructure project, excluding the
cost of land.
• Priority will be given to infrastructure projects
that involve significant contributions from
stakeholders and bank financing. In states with
comparatively better export infrastructure and
institutional capacity, Public -Private Partnership
(PPP) projects w ill be encouraged to leverage
the funds under the Trade Infrastructure for
Export Scheme (TIES) optimally.
Town and Export 
Excellence 
• Recognized associations of units in Towns of
Export Excellence can avail financial assistance
under Market Access Initiative (MAI) scheme, on
priority basis, for export promotion projects for
marketing, capacity building and technological
services.
• Common Service Providers in the Towns of
Export Excellence are entitled for Authorisation
under Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG)
Scheme
One District One 
Product (ODOP) / 
District Export Cluster 
• Aimed at decentralizing the export promotion
initiative to state/UT and district level, with
convergence of ongoing schemes at district
level.

[Page 71]
69
• Providing Capital Investment support to existing
micro-enterprises, with preference to enterprises
producing ODOP products. With new units,
supported only for ODOP products only.
• Extending of Infrastructure support for Marketing
and Branding. If marketing and branding are
being conducted at the state or regional level,
other products would also be supported.
• Branding and Marketing support through grants
of up to 50% of total expenditure, for the state or
regional level ODOP product, to SHGs, co -
operatives, etc. Branding and marketing are
crucial for the growth of Micro Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSME).
• Extension of Subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri
Formalisation of Micro Food Processing
Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme with the ODOP
approach where a credit-linked capital subsidy
comprising 35% of the eligible project cost, up
to Rs. 10 lakh (US$ 13,379.7) may be provided
where the beneficiary may need to contribute at
least 10% of the amount and the balance as a
bank loan.
• Providing a credit-linked grant of 35% to support
groups such as self -help groups (SHGs),
Producer Co-operatives, etc. for operations such
as sorting, grading, storage, packaging,
processing and so on.
• Extension of Seed Capital fund of Rs. 40,000
(US$ 535.2) per SHG member involved in food
processing, for working capital and buying small
tools.

[Page 72]
70
• Providing entrepreneurship focused Training for
entrepreneurship development, operations,
marketing, accounting, FSSAI standards, GST
registration, Udyog Aadhaar, Geographical
Indication (GI) registration and so on.
Furthermore, training designed for ODOP
products is provided on hygiene, storage,
packaging and development of new products.
Such training helps the entrepreneurs conduct
business operations efficiently and improve
product quality.
Table 6: Schemes that reduce the cost of serving the international markets 
Initiative Description 
Export Promotion 
Capital Goods Scheme 
• The EPCG license offers financial assistance to
exporters by eliminating import charges.
• Under the EPCG Scheme, duty-free imports of
goods are allowed if the exporter fulfils an
export obligation six times the amount of duty
savings on capital goods within a span of six
years.
• Once the EPCG License is obtained, it must be
registered at the designated port of entry to be
eligible for duty waivers when submitting the Bill
of Entry.
• For exporters with shipments valued below ₹1
crore, compliance also entails providing a bond
or bank guarantee. The bond must be furnished
at the customs port for exporters with exports