--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 66 to Page 67
Word Range: 3819 - 4216
Word Count: 398
--------------------

[Page 66]
64
options such as monthly, quarterly, or half-yearly 
instalments 
Interest Equalisation 
Scheme (IES) 
• Provides interest rate subsidy of 2-3%, to
exporters for pre- and post-shipment credit. This
scheme focuses on manufacturers in certain MSME
focused sector.
Credit Guarantee 
Scheme for 
Subordinate Debt 
• Promoter(s) of the MSMEs are given credit equal
to 50% of their stake (equity plus debt) or Rs. 75
lakh whichever is lower.
• Debt - 90% guarantee coverage would come from
scheme/ Trust (CGTMSE) and remaining 10% from
the concerned promoter(s).
• 1.50% per annum on the guaranteed amount on
outstanding basis, as guarantee fee to be borne by
the exporter.
• There can be a moratorium of 7 years (maximum)
on the payment of principal. However, interest will
be paid as and when applied.
• Ease in repayment, after completion of moratorium
period, principal shall be fully repaid within the tenor
of loan (as per sanction) in form of Principal Equally
Distributed (PED)
Export Credit Re-
Financing (ECR) 
• ECR is a scheme, by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) to provide short-term credit to banks and
financial institutions for export credit at the
prevailing repo rate under the Liquidity Adjustment
Facility (LAF)
• Scheduled Banks extend this facility at Repo Rate
and adding a Credit Risk Premium and Spread
close to 3-4%.

[Page 67]
65
• The scheme aims to increase the availability of
credit to exporters and to support export
growth.
Table 4: Initiatives to support market access 
Initiative Description 
Market Access Initiative 
(MAI) 
• Reimbursement regarding participation support
to the regular Director/Partner/Proprietor or a
regular officer of the company on senior managerial
position, except a foreign national, in terms of flight
ticket reimbursement.
• Provided to the maximum of three MAI events in a
year, per member participant company.
• Support to conduct Market and Research
Studies, Joint Events, Reverse Buyer-Seller Meet
(RBSMs).
• Support to upgrade marketing and branding
ability for the MSMEs.
• Capacity Building Support of Exports, in terms
of Standards, Regulations, etc.
International 
Cooperation Scheme 
• Reimbursement for MSMEs in participation in
international exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-
seller meet in foreign countries (physical and
virtual) for space rent, up to 100% with the
maximum of Rs. 1.00 lakh or actual rent paid,
whichever is lower (for one representative from
each participating enterprise).
• Deputation of MSME Business Delegations to
foreign countries, which includes Air Fare, and