--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 71 to Page 72
Word Range: 4831 - 5202
Word Count: 372
--------------------

[Page 71]
69
• Providing Capital Investment support to existing
micro-enterprises, with preference to enterprises
producing ODOP products. With new units,
supported only for ODOP products only.
• Extending of Infrastructure support for Marketing
and Branding. If marketing and branding are
being conducted at the state or regional level,
other products would also be supported.
• Branding and Marketing support through grants
of up to 50% of total expenditure, for the state or
regional level ODOP product, to SHGs, co -
operatives, etc. Branding and marketing are
crucial for the growth of Micro Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSME).
• Extension of Subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri
Formalisation of Micro Food Processing
Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme with the ODOP
approach where a credit-linked capital subsidy
comprising 35% of the eligible project cost, up
to Rs. 10 lakh (US$ 13,379.7) may be provided
where the beneficiary may need to contribute at
least 10% of the amount and the balance as a
bank loan.
• Providing a credit-linked grant of 35% to support
groups such as self -help groups (SHGs),
Producer Co-operatives, etc. for operations such
as sorting, grading, storage, packaging,
processing and so on.
• Extension of Seed Capital fund of Rs. 40,000
(US$ 535.2) per SHG member involved in food
processing, for working capital and buying small
tools.

[Page 72]
70
• Providing entrepreneurship focused Training for
entrepreneurship development, operations,
marketing, accounting, FSSAI standards, GST
registration, Udyog Aadhaar, Geographical
Indication (GI) registration and so on.
Furthermore, training designed for ODOP
products is provided on hygiene, storage,
packaging and development of new products.
Such training helps the entrepreneurs conduct
business operations efficiently and improve
product quality.
Table 6: Schemes that reduce the cost of serving the international markets 
Initiative Description 
Export Promotion 
Capital Goods Scheme 
• The EPCG license offers financial assistance to
exporters by eliminating import charges.
• Under the EPCG Scheme, duty-free imports of
goods are allowed if the exporter fulfils an
export obligation six times the amount of duty
savings on capital goods within a span of six
years.
• Once the EPCG License is obtained, it must be
registered at the designated port of entry to be
eligible for duty waivers when submitting the Bill
of Entry.
• For exporters with shipments valued below ₹1
crore, compliance also entails providing a bond
or bank guarantee. The bond must be furnished
at the customs port for exporters with exports