--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 68 to Page 69
Word Range: 4217 - 4580
Word Count: 364
--------------------

[Page 68]
66
Duty Allowance of up to $150 per day on 
reimbursement basis, which includes export 
promotion organisation as well as other MSMEs. 
Procurement and 
Marketing Support 
(PMS) 
• Participation of Individual MSEs in domestic
Exhibition/ Trade Fair
• Developing capacity of MSMEs in Development of
Marketing Haats, adoption of modern packaging
technique, bar code and e-commerce platform
• Organizing events like Domestic Trade Fair&
Exhibition/ Awareness programs/ National &
International Workshops & Seminars/ Vendor
• Development Programs. Development of retail
outlet
Table 5: Initiatives to create a favorable business environment 
Initiative Description 
Scheme of Fund for 
Regeneration of 
Traditional Industries 
(SFURTI) 
• The financial assistance provided for a specific
project has a ceiling of Rs. 2.5 crore for Regular
Cluster (up to 500 artisans) and a ceiling of Rs.
5 crores for Major Cluster (more than 500
artisans)
• Aims to organize traditional industries and
artisans into collectives by increasing production
and value addition to make products competitive
• Setting up of production facility with latest
machinery.
• Build general awareness, counselling, skill
development and capacity building, exposure

[Page 69]
67
visits, market development initiatives, design 
and product development, etc. 
• Creation of common facility centres, raw material
banks, upgradation of production infrastructure,
warehousing facility, tools and technological
upgradation, etc.
• Marketing connects and Brand Building, e -
commerce, and Exposure Visits.
Micro & Small 
Enterprises Cluster 
Development 
Programme (MSE-CDP) 
• Creating Common Facility Centers including
Plug & Play Facilities.
• Support for Flatted Factory Complexes and
Infrastructure Development Projects.
• Assistance up to 80% of the maximum project
cost of Rs. 30 crores  for creation of Common
Facility Centre such as common
production/processing center, design center,
testing facilities including plug and play facilities
• Assistance up to 70% of the maximum Project
cost of Rs. 15 crores for development of land,
roads, drainage, power distribution etc. in
new/existing industrial (multi -product)
areas/estates/Flatted Factory Complex
Trade Infrastructure for 
Export Scheme 
• The Central Government helps with
infrastructure development in the form of grant -
in-aid, wherein they contribute approximately
50% of the total equity in the project. However,
in NE and Hill States, including the Union
Territory of J&K and Ladakh, this contribution
increases to 80%.