--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-101-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-101
Page Range: Page 70 to Page 71
Word Range: 4581 - 4830
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 70]
68 
• Furthermore, in states that have relatively poor
export infrastructure and lack institutional
capacity for preparing good Detailed Project
Reports (DPRs), but possess positive export
potential, the grant can reach up to 80% of the
total equity.
• The maximum limit for grant -in-aid is set at Rs.
20 crore per infrastructure project, excluding the
cost of land.
• Priority will be given to infrastructure projects
that involve significant contributions from
stakeholders and bank financing. In states with
comparatively better export infrastructure and
institutional capacity, Public -Private Partnership
(PPP) projects w ill be encouraged to leverage
the funds under the Trade Infrastructure for
Export Scheme (TIES) optimally.
Town and Export 
Excellence 
• Recognized associations of units in Towns of
Export Excellence can avail financial assistance
under Market Access Initiative (MAI) scheme, on
priority basis, for export promotion projects for
marketing, capacity building and technological
services.
• Common Service Providers in the Towns of
Export Excellence are entitled for Authorisation
under Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG)
Scheme
One District One 
Product (ODOP) / 
District Export Cluster 
• Aimed at decentralizing the export promotion
initiative to state/UT and district level, with
convergence of ongoing schemes at district
level.

[Page 71]
69
• Providing Capital Investment support to existing
micro-enterprises, with preference to enterprises
producing ODOP products. With new units,
supported only for ODOP products only.
• Extending of Infrastructure support for Marketing
and Branding. If marketing and branding are
being conducted at the state or regional level,
other products would also be supported.
• Branding and Marketing support through grants
of up to 50% of total expenditure, for the state or
regional level ODOP product, to SHGs, co -
operatives, etc. Branding and marketing are
crucial for the growth of Micro Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSME).
• Extension of Subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri
Formalisation of Micro Food Processing
Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme with the ODOP
approach where a credit-linked capital subsidy
comprising 35% of the eligible project cost, up
to Rs. 10 lakh (US$ 13,379.7) may be provided
where the beneficiary may need to contribute at
least 10% of the amount and the balance as a
bank loan.
• Providing a credit-linked grant of 35% to support
groups such as self -help groups (SHGs),
Producer Co-operatives, etc. for operations such
as sorting, grading, storage, packaging,
processing and so on.
• Extension of Seed Capital fund of Rs. 40,000
(US$ 535.2) per SHG member involved in food
processing, for working capital and buying small
tools.