--- PAGE 1 ---
. SPICES BOARD aigaa ais
lain (Ministry of Commerce & Industry Govt. of India) (ater ust sqaht Hae, AA ALR)
oe | = Sugandha Bhavan Gra Wat
WN H.By-pass WA Ua Seo
eusia af PB.No. 2277 Ol. at. A. 2277

Nal Palarivattom P.O. mreneaeer ota.
Kochi - 682 025, India aledt - 682 025, Het
| 2™4 April 2026
CIRCULAR.01/2026-27
Sub : Return of International Transhipment of FCL/LCL cargo from all Ports/Airports due
to Disruption in maritime routes — Facilitation Measures for Re-stuffing of consignments
of spices & spices products- reg
During the stakeholders’ virtual meeting held on 26" March 2026, representations were
received from the trade indicating that, due to the closure of the Strait of Hormuz and the
consequent disruption in maritime routes, certain vessels carrying export cargo from India
are unable to reach their destination ports and led to diversion / return of export cargo to

Indian ports.: .

. The trade has requested facilitation by Spices Board for re-stuffing of such containers, along
with a simplified and uniform procedure, including in cases involving movement through
multiple Customs stations. Representations have also been received from the Exporters
regarding procedure for re-stuffing of containers which are Back to Town (BTT).

The matter has been examined by the Board. In order to facilitate the exporters of spices &

spice products during the disruption time in maritime routes due to closure of the Strait of

Hormuz, the Board has decided to consider such requests for re-stuffing of returned cargo,

that has been brought back to their factories (Back to Town). In such cases, the retesting of

consignment shall not be required, provided that the seal & container numbers are found to
be matching with those mentioned in the Test Report or Health Certificate issued by Spices

Board.

This facility is also extended to cover international t-anshipment of LCL cargo which are

returned to India subject to 100% examination and verification of the integrity of the

consignment. :

Accordingly, the Board has enabled a provision in the Export Support System (ESS) for

| submission of requests for re-stuffing. In this regard, the following guidelines are issued to
exporters of spices and spice products for re-stuffing of consignments returned to India.

> The Exporter shall submit an online intimation for re-stuffing in Export Support
System (ESS).
3-Aget / Email : mail.sboard@gov.in aa age / Website : www.indianspices.com

--- PAGE 2 ---
é ‘O” [ea
Hed
> Subsequently, the exporter shall submit the copies of Cancelled Shipping Bills & Let
Export Order/ Sea Arrival Manifest, whichever is applicable, to the SRD concerned in
Originating place. i
> Re-stuffing of consignments shall be permitted only subject to verification of the
integrity of the container seal. The seal number must match with the details recorded
in the documents issued at the time of issuance of the Final Report.
> If the seal is found tampered or not intact, the container will not be permitted for re-
stuffing. In such cases, the exporter shall place new intimation for further sampling &
stuffing as per the system in place
The above facility will be available in Export Support System with effect from 3" April 2026
and shall remain in force till 25" April 2026.
All exporters of spices and spice products are advised to avail this facility during the period
of disruption.
This order is issued with the approval of Competent Authority.
Director (Mktg)
//Issued from File No. MKTG/CIRC/SH/5/2021-22 Computer No.17552//
To
All Exporters of Spices & Spice Products
All Spice Exporters Association
Conyto.
' The Under Secretary, DoC, MoC&l, New Delhi
The Secretary, Spices Board Kochi
All Regional Offices of the Board
Office Copy :
Guard File ;