--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C55
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 14113 - 14362
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 15]
(42) Sustainability repor ting standards should take account of the Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting and the 
Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation. They should also tak e account of other repor ting requirements 
in Directive 2013/34/EU that are not directly related to sustainability , with the aim of provi ding the users of the 
repor ted inf or mation with a bett er understanding of the development, performa nce, position and im pact of the 
under taking, by maximising the link s between the sustainability inf or mation and other inf or mation repor te d in 
accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU.
(43) Sustainability repor ting standards should be propor tionate and should not im pose an unnecessar y administrative 
burden on companies that are required to use them. In order to minimise disr upti on f or under takings that already 
repor t sustainability inf or mation, sustainability repor ting standards should take account of existing standards and 
framewor k s f or sustainability repor ting and accounting where appropr iat e. Such existing standards and frameworks 
include the Global Repor ting Initiative, the Sustainability A ccounting Standards Board, the Internatio nal Int egrated 
Repor ting Council, the Intern ational A ccounting Standards Board, the T ask Force on Climate-r elated Financial 
Disclosures, the Carbon Disclosure Standards Board, and CDP , f or merly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
U nion standards should take account of any sustainability repor ting standards developed under the auspices of 
Internatio nal Financial Repor ting Standards Foundation. T o av oid unnecessar y regulator y fragmentation that could 
hav e nega tive consequences f or under takings operating g lobally , U nion sustainability repor ting standards should 
contr ibut e to the process of converg ence of sustainability repor ting standards at g lobal level, by suppor ting the 
w ork of the Internati onal Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB). Union sustainability repor ting standards should 
reduce the r isk of inconsist ent repor ting requirements f or under takings that operat e g lobally by integrat ing the 
conte nt of g lobal baseline standards to be developed by the ISSB, to the extent that the content of those baseline 
standards is consistent with the Union’s legal framework and the objectives of the Green Deal.
(44) In the Green Deal the Commission committed itself to suppor t businesses and other stak eholders in developing 
standardised natural capital accounting practices within the U nion and internatio nally , with the aim of ensur ing 
appropr iat e management of en vironmental r isks and mitig ation oppor tunities, and reduce related transaction costs.
The T ransparent Project sponsored under the Programme f or the Environment and Climate A ction (LIFE 
programme) established by Regulation (EU) 2021/783 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
30
) is 
developing the first natural capital accounting methodology , which will make existing methods easier to compare 
and more transparent while lower ing the threshold f or companies to adopt and use the syste ms in suppor t of 
future-proofing their business. The Natural Capital Protocol is also an impor tant referen ce in the fi eld of natural 
capital accounting. While natural capital accounting methods ser ve pr incipally to strengthen internal management 
decisions, they should be duly considered when establishing sustainability repor ting standards. Some natural capital 
accounting methodologies seek to assign a monetar y value to the environmental impacts of companies’ activities, 
which ma y help users of sustainability inf or mation to bette r understand such im pacts. It is theref ore appropr iat e 
that sustainability repor ting standards should be able to include monetised indicators of sustainability im pacts if 
that is deemed necessar y .
(45) Sustainability repor ting standards should also take account of internati onally recognised pr inciples and frameworks 
on responsible business conduct, cor porate social responsibility , and sustainable development, including the SDGs, 
the UN Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines f or Multinational Enter pr ises, the 
OECD Due Dilig ence Guidance f or Responsible Business Conduct and relat ed sectoral guidelines, the Global 
Com pact, the Intern ational Labour Org anization’s (IL O) T r ipar tit e Declaration of Pr inciples concer ning 
Multinational Enterpr ises and Social P olicy , the ISO 26000 standard on social responsibility , and the UN Pr inciples 
f or Responsible Inv estment.
(
30
) Regulation (EU) 2021/783 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 Apr il 2021 establishing a Programme f or the 
Environment and Climate A ction (LIFE), and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1293/2013 (OJ L 172, 17.5.2021, p. 53).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/29