--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C202
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 62
Word Range: 52776 - 53025
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 62]
5a. A Member State ma y register a third-countr y auditor f or the pur pose of the audit of financial stat ements 
only if he or she meets the requirements set out in points (b), (c) and (d) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 
of this Ar ticle.
A Member Stat e ma y registe r a third-countr y auditor f or the pur pose of the assurance f or sustainability repor ting 
only if he or she meets the requirements set out in points (b), (c) and (d) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 
5 of this Ar ticle.
6. In order to ensure unif or m conditions f or the application of point (c) of the fi rst subparagraph of paragraph 
5 and point (c) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 of this Ar ticle, the Commission shall be emp owered to 
decide upon the equivalence refer red to therein by means of im plementing acts. Those implementing acts shall be 
adopt ed in accordance with the examination procedure refe r red to in Ar ticle 48(2).
Member Stat es ma y assess the equivalence refe r red to point (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 and point 
(c) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 of this Ar ticle, as long as the Commission has not taken any such 
decision.
The Commission shall be em powered to adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 48a supplementing this 
Directive f or the pur pose of establishing the general equivalence cr it er ia to be used in assessing whether the audits 
of the fi nancial state ments and, where applicable, the assurance of sustainability repor ting refer red to in 
paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle are car r ied out in accordance with internati onal auditing standards as def ined in 
Ar ticle 26 and with assurance standards f or sustainability repor ting refe r red to in Ar ticle 26a, respectively , and 
with the requirements laid down in Ar ticles 22, 24 and 25. Such cr iter ia, which are applicable to all third 
countr ies, shall be used by Member States when assessing equivalence at national level.’;
(29) Ar ticle 48a is amended as f ollo ws:
(a) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The power to adopt delega ted acts refer red to in Ar ticle 26a(2) shall be confe r red on the Commission f or an 
indetermi nat e per iod of time.’;
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘3. The delegatio n of power refer red to in Ar ticle 26(3), Ar ticle 26a(3), Ar ticle 45(6), Ar ticle 46(2) and Ar ticle 
47(3) ma y be revok ed at an y time by the European P arliament or by the Council. A decision to revok e shall put an 
end to the delegatio n of the po wer specified in that decision. It shall take effect the da y f ollo wing the publication 
of the decision in the Off icial Jour nal of the Eur opean Union or at a later date specifi ed therein. It shall not affect the 
validity of an y delegat ed acts already in f orce.’;
(c) paragraph 5 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘5. A delegat ed act adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 26(3), Ar ticle 26a(3), Ar ticle 45(6), Ar ticle 46(2) or Ar ticle 
47(3) shall ent er into f orce only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the 
Council within a per iod of f our months of notifi cation of that act to the European P arliament and the Council or 
if, bef ore the expir y of that per iod, the European P arliament and the Council hav e both inf or med the Commission 
that the y will not object. That per iod shall be ext ended by two months at the initiative of the European P arliament 
or of the Council.’.
Ar ticle 4
Amendments t o Regulation (EU) No 537/2014
Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 is amended as f ollows:
(1) in Ar ticle 4(2), the second subparagraph is replaced by the f ollo wing:
‘For the pur poses of the limits specified in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, and non-audit ser vices other than those refer red to in Ar ticle 5(1), required by Union or national legislation, 
shall be excluded.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/76 16.12.2022