--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C111
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 30
Word Range: 28637 - 28886
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 30]
3. Where applicable, the inf or mation refe r red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall contain inf or mation about the 
under taking’s o wn operations and about its value chain, including its products and ser vices, its business relationships 
and its supply c hain.
For the first three y ears of the application of the measures to be adopt ed by the Member States in accordance with 
Ar ticle 5(2) of Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European P arliament and of the Council (**), and in the event that 
not all the necessar y inf or mation regarding its value c hain is av ailable, the under taking shall explain the eff or ts made 
to obtain the necessar y inf or mation about its value c hain, the reasons why not all of the necessar y inf or mation could 
be obtained, and its plans to obtain the necessar y inf or mation in the future.
Where applicable, the inf or mation refer red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also contain refe rences to, and additional 
explanations of, the other inf or mation included in the management repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 19, and the 
amounts repor ted in the annual financia l statements.
Member States ma y allow inf or mation relating to im pending developments or matte rs in the course of negotiation to 
be omitted in exce ptional cases where, in the duly justified opinion of the members of the administrative, 
manage ment and super visor y bodies, acting within the compet ences assigned to them by national la w and hav ing 
collective responsibility f or that opinion, the disclosure of such inf or mation w ould be ser iously prejudicial to the 
commercial position of the under taking, provided that such omission does not prevent a fair and balanced 
understanding of the under taking’s development, performance and position, and the imp act of its activity .
4. U nder takings shall repor t the inf or mation refer red to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Ar ticle in accordance with the 
sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 29b.
5. The management of the under taking shall inf or m the work ers’ representatives at the appropr iate level and 
discuss with them the relevant inf or mation and the means of obtaining and ver ifying sustainability inf or mation. The 
w orkers’ representatives’ opinion shall be communicat ed, where applicable, to the relevant administrative, 
manage ment or super visor y bodies.
6. By wa y of derog ation from paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Ar ticle, and without prejudice to paragraphs 9 and 10 of 
this Ar ticle, small and medium-sized under takings refe r red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, small and non-com plex 
institutions def ined in point (145) of Ar ticle 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, capti ve insurance under takings 
defined in point (2) of Ar ticle 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (***) and 
capti ve reinsurance under takings def ined in point (5) of Ar ticle 13 of that Directive ma y limit their sustainability 
repor ting to the f ollo wing inf or mation:
(a) a br ief descr iption of the under taking’s business model and strateg y ;
(b) a descr iption of the under taking’s policies in relation to sustainability matte rs;
(c) the pr incipal actual or poten tial adverse impacts of the under taking on sustainability matte rs, and an y actions 
taken to identify , monitor , prevent, mitig ate or remediate such actual or poten tial adverse im pacts;
(d) the pr incipal r isks to the under taking relat ed to sustainability matt ers and how the under taking manage s those 
r isks ;
(e) ke y indicators necessar y f or the disclosures refer red to in points (a) to (d).
Small and medium-sized under takings, small and non-complex institutions and capti ve insurance and reinsurance 
under takings that rely on the derogation refe r red to in the first subparagraph shall repor t in accordance with the 
sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings refer red to in Ar ticle 29c.
7. For fi nancial yea rs star ting bef ore 1 Januar y 2028 , by wa y of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle, small 
and medium-sized under takings which are public-interest entities as defined in point (a) of point (1) of Ar ticle 2 ma y 
decide not to include in their manag ement repor t the inf or mation refer red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle. In such 
cases, the under taking shall, never theless, br ief ly state in its managemen t repor t why the sustainability repor ting was 
not provid ed.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/44 16.12.2022