--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C65
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 17 to Page 18
Word Range: 16751 - 17000
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 17]
Conv ention on the Rights of the Child, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Pr inciples and Rights at W ork , the 
fundamental conventions of the ILO, the European Conv ention f or the Protection of Human Rights and 
Fundamental Freedoms, the European Social Char ter , and the Char te r of Fundamental Rights of the European 
U nion. Repor ting car r ied out on social fact ors, as well as on envi ronmental and govern ance f actors, should be 
propor tionat e to the scope and the goals of this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards that address 
ge nder equality and equal pa y f or w ork of equal value should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be 
repor ted about the gender pa y g ap, taking account of other relevant U nion la w . Sustainability repor ting standards 
that address em plo yment and inclusion of people with disabilities should specify , amongst other things, 
inf or mation to be repor ted about accessibility measures tak en by the under taking.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address training and skills development should specify , amongst other things, 
inf or mation to be repor ted about the propor tion and breakdown of w orkers par ticipating in training. Sustainability 
repor ting standards that address collective bargaining should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be 
disclosed about the existen ce of w ork s councils as well as the existen ce of collective agreements and the propor tion 
of work ers covered by such agreements. Sustainability repor ting standards that address par ticipation of w orke rs 
should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be disclosed about the par ticipation of work ers in 
administrative and super visor y boards. Sustainability repor ting standards that address diversity should specify , 
amongst other things, inf or mation to be repor ted on gender diversity at top management and the number of 
members of the under -represented sex on their boards.
(50) Users need inf or mation about govern ance fact ors. Gov er nance f actors that are most relevant to users are liste d by 
author itative repor ting frameworks such as the Global Repor ting Initiative and the T ask Force on Climate-r elated 
Financial Disclosures, as well as by author itative g lobal framewor k s such as the Global Gover nance Pr inciples of the 
Internatio nal Cor porate Gov er nance Networ k and the G20/OECD Pr inciples of Cor porat e Gover nance. 
Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose on govern ance 
fa ctors. Such inf or mation should co ver the role of an under taking’s administrative, manag ement and super visor y 
bodies with regard to sustainability matters, the exper tise and skills needed to fulfil that role or the access such 
bodies have to such exper tise and skills, whether the compan y has a policy in te r ms of incentives which are offered 
to members of those bodies and whic h are linke d to sustainability matt ers, and inf or mation on an under taking’s 
internal control and r isk manag ement system s in relation to the sustainability repor ting process. Users also need 
inf or mation about under takings’ cor porate culture and approach to business ethics, whic h are recognised elements 
of author itative framewor k s on cor porat e governance , such as the Global Gov er nance Pr inciples of the 
Internatio nal Cor porat e Govern ance Network, including inf or mation about anti-cor r uption and anti-br iber y , and 
about the under taking’s activities and commitments aimed at exer ting its political inf luence, including its lobb ying 
activities.
Inf or mation about the management of the under taking and the quality of relationships with customer s, suppliers 
and communities aff ected by the activities of the under taking, helps users to understand an under taking’s r isks and 
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters. Inf or mation about relationships with suppliers includes pa yment practices 
relating to the dat e or per iod f or pa yment, the rat e of inte rest f or late pa yment or the compen sation f or recovery 
costs refe r red to in Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (
31
) . Ever y ye ar , thousands 
of businesses, especially small and medium-sized ent er pr ises (‘SMEs’ ), suffe r an administrative and fi nancial burden 
because the y are paid late, or not at all. Ultimat ely , late pa yments lead to insolvency and bankr uptcy , with 
destr uctive effects on entire value c hains. Increasing the amount of inf or mation about pa yment practices should 
empo wer other under takings to identify promp t and reliable pa ye rs, det ect unfa ir pa yment practices, access 
inf or mation about the businesses the y trade with, and negotiate f airer pa yment term s.
(
31
) Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Febr uar y 2011 on combating late pa yment in commercial 
transactions (OJ L 48, 23.2.2011, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/31

[Page 18]
(51) The sustainability repor ting standards should promot e a more integrat ed view of all the inf or mation published by 
under takings in the manag ement repor t to provid e users of that inf or mation with a bett er understanding of the 
development, performance, position and impact of the under taking. The sustainability repor ting standards should 
distinguish, as necessar y , between inf or mation that under takings should disclose when repor ting at individual level 
and the inf or mation that under takings should disclose when repor ting at group level. The sustainability repor ting 
standards should also contain guidance f or under takings on the process f or identifying the sustainability 
inf or mation that should be included in the manage ment repor t, since an under taking should only be required to 
disclose the inf or mation relevant to understanding its impa cts on sustainability matt ers, and the inf or mation 
relevant to understanding how sustainability matte rs affect its development, performa nce and position.
(52) Member States should ensure that sustainability repor ting is car r ied out in compl iance with work ers’ r ights to 
inf or mation and consultation. The manag ement of the under taking should theref ore inf or m w orkers’ 
representatives at the appropr iate level and discuss with them relevant inf or mation and the means of obtaining and 
ver ifying sustainability inf or mation. This im plies f or the pur pose of this amending Directive the establishment of 
dialogue and exc hange of views between w orke rs ’ representatives and central manag ement or any other level of 
manage ment that could be more appropr iate, at such times, in such fashion and with such content as would enable 
w orkers’ representatives to express their opinion. Their opinion should be communicated, where applicable, to the 
relevant administrative, manage ment or super visor y bodies.
(53) U nder takings in the same sect or are of ten exposed to similar sustainability-relate d r isks , and the y of ten hav e similar 
imp acts on society and the environment. Com par isons between under takings in the same sect or are especially 
valuable to inve stors and other users of sustainability inf or mation. Sustainability repor ting standards should 
theref ore specify both inf or mation that under takings in all sect ors should disclose and inf or mation that 
under takings should disclose depending on their sector of activity . Sector -specifi c sustainability repor ting standards 
are especially imp or tant in the case of sect ors associated with high sustainability r isks f or or impacts on the 
en vironment, human r ights and govern ance, including sectors listed in Sections A to H and Section L of Annex I to 
Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
32
) , and the relevant activities within 
those sector s. When adopt ing sector -specif ic sustainability repor ting standards, the Commission should ensure the 
inf or mation specifi ed by those sustainability repor ting standards is propor tionat e to the scale of the r isks and 
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters specific to each sector , taking account of the f act that the r isks and im pacts 
of some sector s are higher than f or others. The Commission should also take account of the f act that not all activities 
within such sector s are necessar ily associated with high sustainability r isks or im pacts. For under takings that operat e 
in sect ors par ticularly reliant on natural resources, sector -specif ic sustainability repor ting standards w ould require 
the disclosure of nature-related impacts on and r isks f or biodiversity and ecosystems.
Sustainability repor ting standards should also tak e account of the difficulties that under takings ma y encounter in 
gat her ing inf or mation from actors throughout their value c hain, especially from suppliers that are small or 
medium-sized under takings and from suppliers in emerging mark ets and economies. Sustainability repor ting 
standards should specify disclosures concer ning value c hains that are propor tionate and relevant to the scale and 
compl exity of the activities of the under takings, and the capacities and c haract er istics of under takings in value 
c hains, especially those capacities and c haract er istics of under takings that are not subject to the sustainability 
repor ting requirements provid ed f or in this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards should not 
specify disclosures that w ould require under takings to obtain inf or mation from small and medium-sized 
under takings in their value c hain that exceed s the inf or mation to be disclosed in accordance with the sustainability 
repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings. This should be without prejudice to an y U nion 
requirements on under takings to conduct a due diligence process.
(
32
) Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the statistical 
classif ication of economic activities NA CE Revision 2 and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3037/90 as well as cer tain EC 
Regulations on specific statistical domains (OJ L 393, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/32 16.12.2022