--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 3401 - 5419
Word Count: 2,019
--------------------

[Page 5]
(13) The Commission repor t of 21 Apr il 2021 on the review clauses in Directives 2013/34/EU, 2014/95/EU, 
and 2013/50/EU and its accompan ying fitness c heck on the EU framewor k f or public repor ting by companies 
(‘Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness c heck’) identified problems as to the 
effe ctiveness of Directive 2014/95/EU. There is signif icant evidence that many under takings do not disclose 
mater ial inf or mation on all major sustainability-related topics, including climate -related inf or mation such as all 
GHG emissions, and fa ctors that affect biodiversity . The repor t also identif ied the limited compar ability and 
reliability of sustainability inf or mation as signif icant problems. Ad ditionally , man y under takings from which users 
need sustainability inf or mation are not oblig ed to repor t such inf or mation. A ccording ly , there is a clear need f or a 
robust and aff ordable repor ting framework that is accompanied by eff ective auditing practices to ensure the 
reliability of data and av oid greenwashing and double counting.
(14) In the absence of policy action, the g ap between users’ inf or mation needs and the sustainability inf or mation 
provid ed by under takings is expect ed to grow . That g ap has signif icant nega tive consequences. Invest ors are unable 
to tak e suff icient account of sustainability-relate d r isks and oppor tunities in their investment decisions. The 
aggregation of multiple inv estment decisions that do not take adequate account of sustainability-related r isks has 
the poten tial to creat e system ic r isks that threaten financial stability . The European Central Bank (ECB) and 
internati onal org anisations, such as the Financial Stability Board, hav e dra wn att ention to those systemic r isks, in 
par ticular as regards climat e. Invest ors are also less able to c hannel fi nancial resources to under takings and 
economic activities that address and do not exacerbate social and environmental problems, which under mines the 
objectives of the Green Deal, the A ction Plan on Financing Sustainable Growth and the Par is Agreement. Non- 
governmental organisations, social par tners, communities affect ed by under takings’ activities, and other 
stake holders are less able to hold under takings accountable f or their impa cts on people and the environment. This 
creat es an accountability def icit and could lead to lower levels of citizen tr ust in businesses, which in tur n could 
hav e negativ e impa cts on the effi cient functioning of the social mark et econom y . The lack of generally accept ed 
metr ics and methods f or measur ing, valuing, and managing sustainability-related r isks is also an obstacle to the 
eff or ts of under takings to ensure that their business models and activities are sustainable. The lac k of sustainability 
inf or mation provi ded by under takings also limits the ability of stake holders, including civil society actors, trade 
unions and w orke rs’ representatives, to enter into dialogue with under takings on sustainability matt ers.
(15) The Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness c heck also identified a signif icant 
increase in requests to under takings f or inf or mation about sustainability matte rs aimed at addressing the existing 
inf or mation g ap between users’ inf or mation needs and the av ailable cor porate sustainability inf or mation. In 
addition, ongoing expectations on under takings to use a var iety of diffe rent framew ork s and standards are lik ely to 
continue and ma y even intensify as the value placed on sustainability inf or mation continues to gro w . In the absence 
of policy action to build consensus on the inf or mation that under takings should repor t, there will be signif icant 
increases in term s of cost and burden f or repor ting under takings and f or users of such inf or mation.
(16) The existing inf or mation gap makes it more like ly that individual Member Stat es will introduce increasing ly 
diverg ent national r ules or standards. Diff erent repor ting requirements in differ ent Member State s could create 
additional costs and compl exity f or under takings operating across borders and theref ore under mine the internal 
mark et, and could under mine the r ight of establishment and the free mov ement of capital across the U nion. Such 
differ ent repor ting requirements could also mak e repor te d inf or mation less comparable across borders, 
under mining the capital mark ets union.
(17) Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU apply to larg e under takings that are public-interest entities with an 
av erage number of emplo y ees in excess of 500, and to public-interest entities that are parent under takings of a larg e 
group with an av erage number of emplo y ees in excess of 500 on a consolidate d basis, respectively . In view of the 
gro wth of users’ needs f or sustainability inf or mation, additional catego r ies of under takings should be required to 
repor t sustainability inf or mation. It is theref ore appropr iate to require all larg e under takings and all under takings, 
excep t micro under takings, whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion to repor t 
sustainability inf or mation. The provisions of this amending Directive amending Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 
2013/34/EU explicitly set out the scope of the repor ting requirements with reference to Ar ticles 2 and 3 of Directive 
2013/34/EU. Theref ore, they do not simplify or modify another requirement and the restr iction of exem ptions f or 
public-inte rest entities provided f or in Ar ticle 40 of Directive 2013/34/EU does not apply . In par ticular , public- 
inter est entities should not be treated as larg e under takings f or the pur poses of the application of the sustainability 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/19

[Page 6]
repor ting requirements. A ccording ly , small and medium-sized under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading 
on a regulated market in the U nion that are public-inte rest entities should be allowed to repor t in accordance with 
the sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings. In addition, all under takings that 
are parent under takings of larg e groups should prepare sustainability repor ting at group level. Moreover , since 
Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 ref ers to Ar ticle 19a and Ar ticle 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU, the 
under takings added to the scope of the sustainability repor ting requirements will also ha ve to compl y with Ar ticle 8 
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.
(18) The requirement provided f or in this amending Directive that also large under takings whose secur ities are not 
admitte d to trading on a regulate d market in the U nion should disclose inf or mation on sustainability matters is 
mainly justified by concer ns about the im pacts and accountability of such under takings, including through their 
value c hain. In this respect, all large under takings should be subject to the same requirements to repor t 
sustainability inf or mation publicly . In addition, fi nancial mark et par ticipants also need inf or mation from those larg e 
under takings whose secur ities are not admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion.
(19) The requirement provid ed f or in this amending Directive that third-countr y under takings whose secur ities are 
admitte d to trading on a regulate d market in the U nion should also disclose inf or mation on sustainability matt ers is 
aimed at responding to the needs of fi nancial mark et par ticipants f or inf or mation from such under takings in order 
to enable them to understand the r isks and im pacts of their inv estments and to compl y with the disclosure 
requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088.
(20) Third-countr y under takings whic h hav e a signif icant activity on the terr it or y of the Union should also be required to 
provid e sustainability inf or mation, especially on their impa cts on social and en vironmental matt ers, in order to 
ensure that third-countr y under takings are accountable f or their impacts on people and the en vironment and that 
there is a level pla ying fi eld f or compan ies operating in the internal market. Theref ore, third-countr y under takings 
which g enerate a net tur nover of more than EUR 150 million in the U nion and which hav e a subsidiar y 
under taking or a branch on the te r r it or y of the U nion should be subject to U nion sustainability repor ting 
requirements. T o ensure the propor tionality and enf orceability of such requirements, the threshold of hav ing a net 
tur nover of more than EUR 40 million should apply to the branch es of third-countr y under takings, and the 
thresholds relat ed to being considered a larg e under taking or a small or medium-sized under taking, excep t micro 
under takings, whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in the Union should apply to the 
subsidiar y under takings of third-countr y under takings, as such subsidiar y under takings and branche s should be 
responsible f or publishing the sustainability repor t of the third-countr y under taking. The sustainability repor ts 
published by the subsidiar y under taking or branch of a third-countr y under taking should be prepared in 
accordance with standards to be adopt ed by 30 June 2024 by the Commission through delegat ed acts.
The subsidiar y under taking or branch of a third-countr y under taking should also be able to repor t in accordance 
with the standards applying to under takings established in the U nion, or in accordance with standards which are 
deemed equivalent pursuant to an imp lementing act. In the event that not all the inf or mation required under this 
amending Directive is provid ed by the third-countr y under taking, despite the best eff or ts of the subsidiar y 
under taking or branch of that third-countr y under taking to obtain the necessar y inf or mation, that subsidiar y 
under taking or branch should provid e all the inf or mation in its possession and issue a stat ement indicating that the 
third-countr y under taking did not mak e the rest of the required inf or mation available. In order to ensure the quality 
and reliability of the repor ting, the sustainability repor ts of third-countr y under takings should be published 
accompan ied by an assurance opinion expressed by a person or fi r m author ised to give an opinion on the assurance 
of sustainability repor ting, either under the national la w of the third-countr y under taking or of a Member Stat e. In 
the event that such an assurance opinion is not provided, the subsidiar y under taking or branch of the third-countr y 
under taking should issue a stat ement indicating that the third-countr y under taking did not provid e the necessar y 
assurance opinion. The sustainability repor t should be made accessible free of c harge to the public through the 
central, commercial or compan ies registers of the Member Stat es, or altern atively on the website of the subsidiar y 
under taking or the branch of the third-countr y under taking.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/20 16.12.2022