--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C95
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 25
Word Range: 24589 - 24838
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 25]
out in Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC in order to table draf t resolutions to be adopt ed in the g eneral meeting, 
requir ing that, fi rstly , an accredit ed third par ty that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or network as the 
statut or y auditor or audit fi r m car r ying out the statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain elements of the 
sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t be made av ailable to the g eneral meeting.
For under takings subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements introduced by this amending Directive and that 
do not f all within the scope of Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC, shareholders which represent more than 5 % of the 
votin g r ights or 5 % of the capital of the under taking, acting individually or collectively , should also be given the 
r ight to table a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the g eneral meeting, requir ing that, firstly , an accredite d third par ty 
that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or netw ork as the statut or y auditor or audit fir m car r ying out the 
statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain elements of the sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t 
be made av ailable to the ge neral meeting.
(76) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member State s to ensure that each public-interest entity has an audit committee, and 
specifi es its tasks with regard to the statut or y audit. That audit committee should be assigned with cer tain tasks with 
regard to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Those tasks should include the obligation to inf or m the 
administrative or super visor y body of the public-inte rest entity of the outcome of the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, and to explain how the audit committee contr ibut ed to the integr ity of sustainability repor ting and what 
the role of the audit committee was in that process. Member Stat es should be able to allo w functions assigned to the 
audit committee relating to sustainability repor ting and relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting, to be 
performe d by the administrative or super visor y body as a whole or by a dedicated body established by the 
administrative or super visor y body .
(77) Directive 2006/43/EC contains requirements f or registration and oversight of third-countr y auditors and audit 
entities. T o ensure that a consistent framewor k exists f or the work of auditors in both the statutor y audit and the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting, it is necessar y to exte nd those requirements to the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting.
(78) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
37
) applies to statut or y auditors and 
audit fi r ms car r ying out statutor y audits of public-interest entities. T o ensure the independence of the statutor y 
auditor when car r ying out a statut or y audit, that Regulation establishes a limit concer ning the fees f or other ser vices 
that the statutor y auditor can obtain. It is impor tant to clar ify that the assurance of sustainability repor ting should 
not count in the calculation of that limit. In addition, Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 prohibits the provision of 
cer tain non-audit ser vices o ver cer tain per iods when the statut or y auditor is car r ying out the statutor y audit. 
Ser vices related to the preparation of sustainability repor ting, including any consulting ser vices, should also be 
considered as prohibit ed ser vices o ver the per iod prescr ibed in Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The prohibition of 
the provision of such ser vices should apply in all cases where the statutor y auditor car r ies out the statutor y audit of 
fi nancial stat ements.
T o ensure the independence of the statut or y auditor , cer tain non-audit ser vices should also be prohibit ed when the 
statut or y auditor is car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 requires 
statut or y auditors to repor t ir regular ities to the audite d entity and, under cer tain circumstances, to author ities 
designate d by the Member Stat es as responsible f or inv estigating such ir regular ities. Such oblig ation should also be 
extende d, as appropr iate, to statutor y auditors and audit fir ms as regards their w ork on the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting of public-interest entities.
(
37
) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Apr il 2014 on specific requirements regarding 
statutor y audit of public-int erest entities and repealing Commission Decision 2005/909/EC (OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 77).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/39