--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C150
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 44
Word Range: 39107 - 39356
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 44]
A Member Stat e shall require that a branch locat ed in its terr it or y , and which is a branch of an under taking govern ed 
by the la w of a third countr y , whic h is either not par t of a group or is ultimately held by an under taking that is f or med 
in accordance with the law of a third countr y publish and make accessible a sustainability repor t co ver ing the 
inf or mation specifi ed in points (a)(iii) to (a)(v), points (b) to (f) and, where appropr iate, point (h) of Ar ticle 29a(2), at 
the group level, or , if not applicable, the individual level, of the third-countr y under taking.
The r ule refer red to in the third subparagraph shall only apply to a branch where the third-countr y under taking does 
not hav e a subsidiar y under taking as ref er red to in the first subparagraph, and where the branch generat ed a net 
tur nover of more than EUR 40 million in the preceding financia l year .
The first and third subparagraphs shall only apply to the subsidiar y under takings or branche s refer red to in those 
subparagraphs where the third-countr y under taking, at its group level, or , if not applicable, the individual level, 
ge nerated a net tur nover of more than EUR 150 million in the Uni on f or each of the last two consecutive financia l 
ye ars.
Member States ma y require subsidiar y under takings or branches ref er red to in the fi rst and third subparagraphs to 
send them inf or mation about the net tur nover generat ed in their terr it or y and in the U nion by the third-countr y 
under takings.
2. Member Stat es shall require that the sustainability repor t communicated by the subsidiar y under taking or 
branch as refe r red to in paragraph 1 is dra wn up in accordance with the standards adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 40b.
By wa y of derogation from the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the sustainability repor t refer red to in paragraph 
1 of this Ar ticle ma y be drawn up in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to 
Ar ticle 29b or in a manner equivalent to those sustainability repor ting standards, as det er mined in accordance with 
an im plementing act on the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third 
subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC.
Where the inf or mation required to draw up the sustainability repor t refer red to in the first subparagraph of this 
paragraph is not available, the subsidiar y under taking or branch refe r red to in paragraph 1 shall request the third- 
countr y under taking to pro vide them with all inf or mation necessar y to enable them to meet their oblig ations.
In the event that not all the required inf or mation is provided, the subsidiar y under taking or branch refe r red to in 
paragraph 1 shall draw up, publish and mak e accessible the sustainability repor t refe r red to in paragraph 1, 
containing all inf or mation in its possession, obtained or acquired, and issue a statement indicating that the third- 
countr y under taking did not make the necessar y inf or mation av ailable.
3. Member States shall require that the sustainability repor t refe r red to in paragraph 1 is published accompanied 
by an assurance opinion expressed by one or more person(s) or fir m(s) author ised to give an opinion on the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting under the national la w of the third-countr y under taking or of a Member Stat e.
In the event that the third-countr y under taking does not provide the assurance opinion in accordance with the fi rst 
subparagraph, the subsidiar y under taking or branch shall issue a stat ement indicating that the third-countr y 
under taking did not mak e the necessar y assurance opinion av ailable.
4. Member State s ma y inf or m the Commission on an annual basis of the subsidiar y under takings or branches of 
third-countr y under takings that fulf illed the publication requirement laid down in Ar ticle 40d and of the cases where 
a repor t was published but where the subsidiar y under taking or branch has acte d in accordance with the f our th 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Ar ticle. The Commission shall make publicly av ailable on its website a list of the 
third-countr y under takings that publish a sustainability repor t.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/58 16.12.2022