--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C12
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 23 to Page 24
Word Range: 19957 - 21778
Word Count: 1,822
--------------------

[Page 23]
(64) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules concer ning the statut or y audit of annual and consolidated fi nancial statements. 
It is necessar y to ensure that consistent r ules apply to the audit of fi nancial stat ements and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting by the statut or y auditor . Directive 2006/43/EC should apply where the assurance opinion 
on sustainability repor ting is expressed by a statut or y auditor or an audit fir m.
(65) The r ules on the approval and recognition of statutor y auditors and audit fir ms should allow statutor y auditor s to 
qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Member States should ensure that statutor y auditors who 
wish to qualify f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting ha ve the necessar y level of theoretical knowledg e of 
subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice.
Theref ore, statut or y auditors should complet e practical training of at least eight months in the assurance of annual 
and consolidated sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices, taking account of previous 
emplo yment exper ience. Howe ver , statut or y auditors that have already been appro ved or recognised in a Member 
State should continue to be allo wed to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Likewise, Member Stat es 
should ensure that natural persons who are undergoing the approval process at the dat e of application of the 
requirements f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting established by this amending Directive are not subject to 
those requirements, provid ed they complet e the process within the f ollo wing two ye ars. Member Stat es should, 
however , ensure that statut or y auditors appro ved within two y ears of the date of application of those requirements 
and who wish to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting acquire the necessar y knowledg e in 
sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability repor ting via continued profes sional education. Natural 
persons who decide to be appro ved only as statut or y auditors f or statutor y audit should be able to decide at a later 
point in time to qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. In order to do so, such persons should 
meet the necessar y requirements set out by Member Stat es to ensure that they also hav e the necessar y level of 
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such 
knowledg e in practice.
(66) It should be ensured that the requirements imposed on auditors as regar ds the statutor y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting they car r y out are consiste nt. Theref ore, there should be at least one designate d person who 
is actively inv olved in car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting (‘ke y sustainability par tner ’). When 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, statut or y auditors should be required to devot e sufficient time 
and assign sufficient resources and exper tise in order to car r y out their duties appropr iately . The client account 
record should specify the f ees c harged f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting and an assurance fi le should be 
creat ed to include inf or mation relat ed to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Where the same statutor y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to include the assurance file in the audit file. However , requirements imposed on statut or y auditors 
relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting should only apply to those statut or y auditors that car r y out the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(67) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms that car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting should hav e a high level of 
tec hnical and specialised exper tise in the fi eld of sustainability .
(68) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to put appropr iate r ules in place to av oid the fe es on the statut or y 
audit being inf luenced or det er mined by the provision of additional ser vices to the audited entity or being based on 
any f or m of contingenc y . That Directive also requires Member Stat es to ensure that statutor y auditors car r ying out 
statut or y audits compl y with the r ules on professional ethics, independence, objectivity , confidentiality and 
professiona l secrecy . For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iate that those r ules be exte nded to statutor y auditors 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/37

[Page 24]
(69) In order to provid e f or unif or m assurance practices and high-quality assurance of sustainability repor ting across the 
U nion, the Commission should be em powered to adopt sustainability assurance standards by means of delega ted 
acts. Member States should be given the possibility of applying national assurance standards, procedures or 
requirements, as long as the Commission has not adopt ed an assurance standard by means of delegat ed acts 
co ver ing the same subject matt er . Such assurance standards should set out the procedures that the auditor is to 
perform in order to dra w its conclusions on the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Theref ore, the Commission 
should adop t assurance standards f or limited assurance by means of delegat ed acts bef ore 1 October 2026 . With a 
view to f acilitating the har monisation of the assurance of sustainability repor ting across Member State s, the CEA OB 
should be encouraged to adopt non-binding guidelines to set out the procedures to be performe d when expressing 
an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, pending the adop tion by the Commission of an assurance 
standard cover ing the same subject matter .
(70) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules on the statut or y audit of a group of under takings. Similar r ules should be set out 
f or the assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting.
(71) Directive 2006/43/EC requires statutor y auditors or audit fi r ms to present the results of their statut or y audit in an 
audit repor t. Similar r ules should be set out f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. The results of the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting should be presented in an assurance repor t. Where the same statut or y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to present the inf or mation about the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the audit repor t.
(72) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to set up a system of quality assurance review of statut or y auditors 
and audit fi r ms. T o ensure that quality assurance reviews also take place f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
and that the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews hav e appropr iat e professional education and relevant 
exper ience in sustainability repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting, that requirement to set up a 
system of quality assurance review should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. As a transitional 
measure, until 31 December 2025 , the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews of the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting should be exe mp te d from the requirement to have relevant exper ience in sustainability 
repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices.
(73) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to hav e in place an investig ations and sanctions regime f or statut or y 
auditors and audit fir ms car r ying out statutor y audits. That Directive also requires Member States to organise an 
effe ctive syste m of public o versight, and to ensure that regulatory ar rangements f or public oversight system s per mit 
effe ctive cooperation at U nion level in respect of Member States’ oversight activities. Such requirements should be 
extende d to statutor y auditors and audit fir ms that conduct assurance of sustainability repor ting in order to ensure 
the consistency of the investig ations, sanctions and o versight framew ork s set up f or the auditor ’s w ork in the 
statut or y audit and the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(74) Directive 2006/43/EC contains r ules on the appointment and dismissal of statut or y auditor s and audit fir ms 
car r ying out statutor y audits. Those r ules should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting to ensure 
the consistency of the r ules imp osed on auditors as regards their w ork on the statut or y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting.
(75) Pursuant to Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (
36
) , Member Stat es are 
required to ensure that shareholders of under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a regulated mark et 
in the Union, acting individually or collectively , hav e the r ight to put it ems on the agenda of the g eneral meeting, 
provid ed that each such it em is accompan ied by a justification or a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the g eneral 
meeting, and that the y hav e the r ight to table draf t resolutions f or it ems included or to be included on the ag enda of 
a general meeting, as the case ma y be. Where those r ights are subject to the condition that the relevant shareholder 
or shareholders hold a minimum stake in the under taking, such minimum stake is not to exce ed 5 % of the share 
capital. As regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting, shareholders should be able to exer cise the r ights set 
(
36
) Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of cer tain r ights of shareholders 
in listed compan ies (OJ L 184, 14.7.2007, p. 17).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/38 16.12.2022