--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C48
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 12363 - 12612
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 13]
Theref ore, an under taking w ould be compl iant with the sustainability repor ting requirements of Directive 
2013/34/EU by repor ting in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards. When defining such standards, 
it is essential to give due consideration, to the greatest extent possible, to the main sustainability repor ting standards 
used worldwide, while not lo wer ing the ambition of this amending Directive and delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant 
thereto.
(38) No existing standard or framewor k satisfies the U nion’s needs f or sustainability repor ting by itself. Inf or mation 
required by Directive 2013/34/EU needs to cover inf or mation relevant from each of the mate r iality perspectives, 
needs to co ver all sustainability matt ers and needs to be aligned, where appropr iate, with other oblig ations under 
U nion law to disclose sustainability inf or mation, including obligations laid down in Regulations (EU) 2019/2088 
and (EU) 2020/852. In addition, mandatory sustainability repor ting standards f or Union under takings should be 
commensurat e with the level of ambition of the Green Deal and the U nion’s objective of climate neutrality by 2050 
as well as with the interm ediat e targets under Regulation (EU) 2021/1119. It is theref ore necessar y to em power the 
Commission to adopt Union sustainability repor ting standards, enabling their rapid adopt ion and ensur ing that the 
conte nt of those sustainability repor ting standards is consistent with the Union’s needs.
(39) The European Financial Repor ting A dvisor y Group (EFRA G) is a non-profit association established under Belgian 
la w that ser ves the public interest by provid ing advice to the Commission on the endorsement of inte r national 
fi nancial repor ting standards. EFRA G has established a reputation as a European centre of exper tise on cor porat e 
repor ting and is well placed to f oster coordination between Union sustainability repor ting standards and 
internati onal initiatives that seek to develop standards that are consistent across the world. In March 2021, a multi- 
stake holder task f orce set up by EFRA G published recommendations f or the possible development of sustainability 
repor ting standards f or the U nion. Those recommendations contain proposals to develop a coherent and 
compreh ensive set of sustainability repor ting standards, cover ing all sustainability matte rs from a double mater iality 
perspective. Those recommendations also contain a detailed roadmap f or developing such standards, and proposals 
f or mutually reinf orcing cooperation between g lobal standard-setting initiatives and standard-setting initiatives of 
the Union. In March 2021, the EFRA G Board President published recommendations f or possible govern ance 
c hanges to EFRA G in the event that it were to be asked to develop tec hnical advice about sustainability repor ting 
standards. The EFRA G Board President’s recommendations include the setting up of a new sustainability repor ting 
pillar within EFRA G, while not signif icantly modifying the existing fi nancial repor ting pillar . In Marc h 2022, the 
EFRA G General Assembly appointe d the members of the newly creat ed EFRA G Sustainability Repor ting Board. 
When adop ting sustainability repor ting standards, the Commission should take account of tec hnical advice that 
EFRA G will develop.
In order to ensure high-quality standards that contr ibut e to the European public good and meet the needs of 
under takings and of users of the inf or mation repor ted , EFRA G should have suff icient public funding to ensure its 
independence. Its te chnical advice should be developed with proper due process, public oversight and transparency , 
and based on the exper tise of a balanced representation of relevant stak eholders, including under takings, invest ors, 
civil society org anisations and trade unions, and should be accompanied by cost-benefi t analyses. P ar ticipation in 
EFRA G’s w ork at te chnical level should be conditional on exper tise in sustainability repor ting and should not be 
conditional on an y fi nancial contr ibution, without prejudice to the par ticipation of public bodies and national 
standard-setting organisations in that w ork . A transparent process av oiding conf licts of inte rest should be 
guarant eed. T o ensure that Union sustainability repor ting standards take account of the views of the Member State s, 
bef ore adopting those standards the Commission should consult the Member Stat e Exper t Group on Sustainable 
Finance, ref er red to in Regulation (EU) 2020/852, (the ‘Member Stat e Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance’) and the 
A ccounting Regulator y Committ ee, refe r red to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European P arliament and of 
the Council (
23
) , (the ‘ A ccounting Regulat or y Committ ee’ ) in relation to EFRA G’s te chnical advice.
(
23
) Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of inter national 
accounting standards (OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/27