--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C174
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 53
Word Range: 45601 - 45850
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 53]
(c) in paragraph 2, the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘ The register shall indicate whether third-countr y audit entities as refer red to in the fi rst subparagraph are 
registere d f or car r ying out the statut or y audit, the assurance of sustainability repor ting, or both.’;
(12) Ar ticle 24b is amended as f ollo ws:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘1. Member Stat es shall ensure that, when the statutor y audit is car r ied out by an audit fir m, that audit fi r m 
designates at least one ke y audit par tner . The audit fi r m shall provi de the ke y audit par tner(s) with suffi cient 
resources and with personnel that hav e the necessar y compet ence and capabilities to car r y out his, her or its 
duties appropr iat ely .
Member State s shall ensure that, when the assurance of sustainability repor ting is car r ied out by an audit fir m, 
that audit fi r m designates at least one ke y sustainability par tner , who ma y be (one of) the ke y audit par tner(s). 
The audit fir m shall provide the ke y sustainability par tner(s) with suffi cient resources and with personnel that 
hav e the necessar y compet ence and capabilities to car r y out his, her or its duties appropr iat ely .
Secur ing audit and assurance quality , independence and compet ence shall be the main cr iter ia when the audit 
fi r m selects the ke y audit par tner(s) and, where applicable, the ke y sustainability par tner(s) to be designated.
The ke y audit par tner(s) shall be actively inv olved in the car r ying-out of the statut or y audit. The ke y sustainability 
par tner shall be actively inv olved in the car r ying-out of the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(b) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘2a. When car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the statutor y auditor shall devot e sufficient 
time to the enga gement and shall assign suff icient resources to enable him or her to car r y out his or her duties 
appropr iat ely .’;
(c) in paragraph 4, points (b) and (c) are replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘(b) in the case of an audit fi r m, the name(s) of the ke y audit par tner(s) and, where applicable, the name(s) of the 
ke y sustainability par tner(s);
(c) the f ees c harged f or the statut or y audit, the f ees c harged f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the 
f ees charg ed f or other ser vices in an y fi nancial y ear .’;
(d) the f ollowi ng paragraph is inser te d:
‘5a. A statutor y auditor or an audit fi r m shall create an assurance file f or each assurance engag ement 
concer ning sustainability repor ting.
The statut or y auditor or the audit fir m shall document at least the data recorded pursuant to Ar ticle 22b as 
regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
The statutor y auditor or the audit fir m shall retain an y other data and documents that are of im por tance in 
suppor t of the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting refe r red to in Ar ticle 28a and f or monitori ng 
compliance with this Directive and other applicable leg al requirements as regards the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting.
The assurance file shall be closed no later than 60 da ys af ter the date of signature of the assurance repor t on 
sustainability repor ting refer red to in Ar ticle 28a.
Where the same statut or y auditor car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial statements and the assurance 
of sustainability repor ting, the assurance fil e ma y be included in the audit fi le.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/67