--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C180
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 55
Word Range: 47101 - 47350
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 55]
3. When a member of a netw ork to which the statut or y auditor or the audit fi r m car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting of a public-interest entity belongs provid es the prohibit ed non-audit ser vices refe r red to in 
paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle to an under taking incor porated in a third countr y whic h is controlled by the public- 
inter est entity that is the subject of assurance of sustainability repor ting, the statut or y auditor or the audit fir m 
concer ned shall assess whether his, her or its independence would be comprom ised by such provision of ser vices by 
the member of the netw ork.
If his, her or its independence is affect ed, the statutor y auditor or the audit fir m shall apply safeguards in order to 
mitig ate the threats caused by the provi sion of prohibit ed non-audit ser vices refe r red to in paragraph 1 of this Ar ticle 
in a third countr y . The statut or y auditor or the audit fir m ma y continue to car r y out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting of the public-interest entity only if he, she or it can justify , in accordance with Ar ticle 22b, that the 
provis ion of such ser vices does not aff ect his, her or its professiona l judge ment and the assurance repor t on 
sustainability repor ting.
Ar ticle 25d
Ir regular ities
Ar ticle 7 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a statut or y auditor or an audit fi r m car r ying 
out the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a public-interest entity .’;
(15) the f ollo wing Ar ticle is inser ted :
‘ Ar ticle 26a
Assurance st andards for sust ainability repor ting
1. Member States shall require statut or y auditors and audit fi r ms to car r y out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting in compl iance with the assurance standards adopt ed by the Commission in accordance with paragraph 3.
2. Member States ma y apply national assurance standards, procedures or requirements as long as the Commission 
has not adopt ed an assurance standard cover ing the same subject matte r .
Member States shall communicate the national assurance standards, procedures or requirements to the Commission 
at least three months bef ore their entr y into f orce.
3. The Commission shall, no later than 1 October 2026 , adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 48a in 
order to supplement this Directive in order to provide f or limite d assurance standards setting out the procedures that 
the auditor(s) and the audit fi r m(s) shall perform in order to dra w his, her or its conclusions on the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting, including eng agement planning, r isk consideration and response to r isks and type of 
conclusions to be included in the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting, or , where relevant, in the audit repor t.
The Commission shall, no later than 1 October 2028 , adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Ar ticle 48a in order to 
supplement this Directive in order to provide f or reasonable assurance standards, f ollo wing an assessment to 
det er mine if reasonable assurance is f easible f or auditors and f or under takings. T aking into account the results of that 
assessment and if theref ore appropr iate, those delegat ed acts shall specify the date from whic h the opinion refer red to 
in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) is to be based on a reasonable assurance engag ement that is 
based on those reasonable assurance standards.
The Commission ma y adopt the assurance standards refe r red to in the fi rst and second subparagraphs only if the y:
(a) hav e been developed with proper due process, public o versight and transparency ;
(b) contr ibut e a high level of credibility and quality to the annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting; and
(c) are conducive to the Union public good.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/69