--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 9 to Page 10
Word Range: 7292 - 9212
Word Count: 1,921
--------------------

[Page 9]
repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Ar ticle 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC. Such 
exem pti on should not apply to larg e under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in 
the U nion f or reasons of inv estor prote ction, in order to ensure great er transparency as regards such under takings.
(26) Ar ticle 23 of Directive 2013/34/EU exem pts parent under takings from the oblig ation to prepare consolidat ed 
fi nancial stat ements and a consolidated management repor t where parent under takings are subsidiar y under takings 
of another parent under taking that compl ies with that obligation. It should be specifi ed, however , that the 
exem pti on regime f or consolidated financia l stat ements and consolidated management repor ts operat es 
independently from the exem ption regime f or consolidated sustainability repor ting. An under taking can theref ore 
be exem pt ed from consolidated financial repor ting requirements but not from consolidated sustainability repor ting 
requirements where its ultimat e parent under taking prepares consolidated fi nancial state ments and consolidat ed 
manage ment repor ts in accordance with Union law , or in accordance with equivalent requirements if the 
under taking is established in a third countr y , but does not car r y out consolidated sustainability repor ting in 
accordance with Union law , or in accordance with equivalent requirements if the under taking is established in a 
third countr y . It is necessar y that parent under takings repor ting at group level provide an adequate understanding 
of the r isks f or , and im pacts of, their subsidiar y under takings, including inf or mation on their due diligence 
processes where appropr iat e. There might be cases where the differ ences between the situation of the group and 
that of its individual subsidiar y under takings, or between the situation of individual subsidiar y under takings in 
differ ent terr itori es are par ticularly significant and w ould, in the absence of additional inf or mation about the 
individual subsidiar y under taking concer ned, cause the user of the inf or mation to reach a substantially differ ent 
conclusion about the r isks f or , or im pacts of, the subsidiar y under taking.
(27) Credit institutions and insurance under takings pla y a ke y role in the transition to wards a fully sustainable and 
inclusive economic and fi nancial system in line with the Green Deal. They can hav e signif icant positive and nega tive 
imp acts via their lending, inv estment and under wr iting activities. Credit institutions and insurance under takings 
other than those that are required to compl y with Directive 2013/34/EU, including cooperatives and mutual 
under takings, should theref ore be subject to sustainability repor ting requirements, provid ed that the y meet cer tain 
size cr it er ia. Users of sustainability inf or mation w ould thus be enabled to assess both the impacts of such credit 
institutions and insurance under takings on society and the en vironment and the r isks ar ising from sustainability 
matte rs that such credit institutions and insurance under takings could f ace. Directive 2013/34/EU provi des f or 
three possible cr iter ia to det er mine whether an under taking is to be considered a ‘large under taking’, namely the 
balance sheet total, net tur nover and the av erage number of emplo yees dur ing the financial year .
The cr it er ion of net tur no ver needs to be adap ted f or credit institutions and f or insurance under takings by refe r r ing 
to the definition of net tur nover in Council Directives 86/635/EEC (
19
) and 91/674/EEC (
20
) inste ad of the g eneral 
definit ion laid down in Directive 2013/34/EU. T o ensure coherence with the repor ting requirements of Directive 
86/635/EEC, Member State s should be able to choose not to apply sustainability repor ting requirements to credit 
institutions listed in Ar ticle 2(5) of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council (
21
) .
(28) The list of sustainability matters on whic h under takings are required to repor t should be as consistent as possible 
with the definition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, and should prevent 
a mismatch between inf or mation required by data users and inf or mation to be repor ted by under takings. That list 
should also cor respond to the needs and expectations of users and under takings, who of ten use the term s 
‘envir onmental’, ‘social’ and ‘gov er nance ’ as a means of cate gor ising the three main sustainability matt ers. However , 
(
19
) Council Directive 86/635/EEC of 8 December 1986 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of banks and other financial 
institutions (OJ L 372, 31.12.1986, p. 1).
(
20
) Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of insurance under takings 
(OJ L 374, 31.12.1991, p. 7).
(
21
) Directive 2013/36/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions 
and the pr udential super vision of credit institutions, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC 
and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/23

[Page 10]
the def inition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 does not explicitly include 
governance matters. The definit ion of the term ‘sustainability matte rs’ in Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this 
amending Directive should theref ore co ver envi ronmental, social and human r ights, and governance f actors, and 
incor porate the def inition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. The 
repor ting requirements of Directive 2013/34/EU should be without prejudice to national repor ting obligations.
(29) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require repor ting not only on inf or mation to the extent 
necessar y f or an understanding of the under taking’s development, performa nce and position, but also on 
inf or mation necessar y f or an understanding of the im pact of the under taking’s activities on en vironmental, social 
and em plo ye e matt ers, respect f or human r ights, anti-cor r upti on and br iber y matters. Those Ar ticles theref ore 
require under takings to repor t both on the impa cts of the activities of the under taking on people and the 
en vironment, and on how sustainability matt ers affect the under taking. That is refer red to as the double mat er iality 
perspective, in which the r isks to the under taking and the im pacts of the under taking each represent one mater iality 
perspective. The fitness c heck on cor porate repor ting sho ws that those two perspectives are of ten not well 
underst ood or applied. It is theref ore necessar y to clar ify that under takings should consider each mat er iality 
perspective in its own r ight, and should disclose inf or mation that is mate r ial from both perspectives as well as 
inf or mation that is mate r ial from only one perspective.
(30) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to disclose inf or mation about fi ve 
repor ting areas: business model; policies, including due dilig ence processes implement ed; the outcome of those 
policies; r isks and r isk manag ement ; and ke y performa nce indicator s relevant to the business. Ar ticle 19a(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU does not contain explicit refe rences to other repor ting areas that users of inf or mation 
consider relevant, some of which align with disclosures included in internatio nal framew ork s, including the 
recommendations of the T ask Force on Climate-relat ed Financial Disclosures. Disclosure requirements should be 
specifi ed in sufficient detail to ensure that under takings repor t inf or mation on their resilience in relation to r isks 
relat ed to sustainability matt ers. In addition to the repor ting areas identif ied in Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU, under takings should be required to disclose inf or mation about their business strategy and 
the resilience of the business model and strateg y in relation to r isks related to sustainability matt ers. They should 
also be required to disclose any plans they ma y hav e to ensure that their business model and strategy are compati ble 
with the transition to a sustainable econom y and with the objectives of limiting g lobal war ming to 1,5 °C in line with 
the P ar is Agreement and achi eving climate neutrality by 2050, as established in Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, with no 
or limited overshoot.
It is especially im por tant that plans relat ed to the climat e be based on the latest science, including Intergo ver nmental 
P anel on Climate Change (IPCC) repor ts and repor ts by the European Scientifi c Ad visor y Board on Climate Change. 
Inf or mation disclosed in accordance with Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 about the amount of capital 
expenditure (CapEx) or operating expenditure (OpEx) associated with tax onomy-al igned activities could suppor t 
fi nancial and inve stment plans related to such plans where appropr iate. Under takings should also be required to 
disclose whether and how their business model and strateg y take account of the interests of stakeholders; an y 
oppor tunities f or the under taking ar ising from sustainability matters; the implementation of the aspects of the 
business strategy which affect, or are aff ected by , sustainability matt ers; any sustainability targe ts set by the 
under taking and the progress made to wards achi eving them; the role of the board and managemen t with regard to 
sustainability matters; the pr incipal actual and potential adverse im pacts connecte d with the under taking’s activities; 
and how the under taking has identif ied the inf or mation that it repor ts on. Once the disclosure of elements, such as 
targets and the progress to wards achi eving them, is required, a separate requirement to disclose the outcomes of 
policies is no long er necessar y .
(31) T o ensure consistency with internati onal instr uments such as the UN ‘Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human 
Rights: Implementing the Unit ed Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framew ork’ (‘UN Guiding Pr inciples on 
Business and Human Rights’ ), the OECD Guidelines f or Multinational Enter pr ises and the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance f or Responsible Business Conduct, the due dilig ence disclosure requirements should be specified in greate r 
detail than is cur rently the case in point (b) of Ar ticle 19a(1) and point (b) of Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU. 
Due dilig ence is the process that under takings car r y out to identify , monitor , prevent, mitig ate, remediate or br ing an 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/24 16.12.2022