--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 15 to Page 16
Word Range: 12718 - 14470
Word Count: 1,753
--------------------

[Page 15]
(42) Sustainability repor ting standards should take account of the Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting and the 
Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation. They should also tak e account of other repor ting requirements 
in Directive 2013/34/EU that are not directly related to sustainability , with the aim of provi ding the users of the 
repor ted inf or mation with a bett er understanding of the development, performa nce, position and im pact of the 
under taking, by maximising the link s between the sustainability inf or mation and other inf or mation repor te d in 
accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU.
(43) Sustainability repor ting standards should be propor tionate and should not im pose an unnecessar y administrative 
burden on companies that are required to use them. In order to minimise disr upti on f or under takings that already 
repor t sustainability inf or mation, sustainability repor ting standards should take account of existing standards and 
framewor k s f or sustainability repor ting and accounting where appropr iat e. Such existing standards and frameworks 
include the Global Repor ting Initiative, the Sustainability A ccounting Standards Board, the Internatio nal Int egrated 
Repor ting Council, the Intern ational A ccounting Standards Board, the T ask Force on Climate-r elated Financial 
Disclosures, the Carbon Disclosure Standards Board, and CDP , f or merly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
U nion standards should take account of any sustainability repor ting standards developed under the auspices of 
Internatio nal Financial Repor ting Standards Foundation. T o av oid unnecessar y regulator y fragmentation that could 
hav e nega tive consequences f or under takings operating g lobally , U nion sustainability repor ting standards should 
contr ibut e to the process of converg ence of sustainability repor ting standards at g lobal level, by suppor ting the 
w ork of the Internati onal Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB). Union sustainability repor ting standards should 
reduce the r isk of inconsist ent repor ting requirements f or under takings that operat e g lobally by integrat ing the 
conte nt of g lobal baseline standards to be developed by the ISSB, to the extent that the content of those baseline 
standards is consistent with the Union’s legal framework and the objectives of the Green Deal.
(44) In the Green Deal the Commission committed itself to suppor t businesses and other stak eholders in developing 
standardised natural capital accounting practices within the U nion and internatio nally , with the aim of ensur ing 
appropr iat e management of en vironmental r isks and mitig ation oppor tunities, and reduce related transaction costs.
The T ransparent Project sponsored under the Programme f or the Environment and Climate A ction (LIFE 
programme) established by Regulation (EU) 2021/783 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
30
) is 
developing the first natural capital accounting methodology , which will make existing methods easier to compare 
and more transparent while lower ing the threshold f or companies to adopt and use the syste ms in suppor t of 
future-proofing their business. The Natural Capital Protocol is also an impor tant referen ce in the fi eld of natural 
capital accounting. While natural capital accounting methods ser ve pr incipally to strengthen internal management 
decisions, they should be duly considered when establishing sustainability repor ting standards. Some natural capital 
accounting methodologies seek to assign a monetar y value to the environmental impacts of companies’ activities, 
which ma y help users of sustainability inf or mation to bette r understand such im pacts. It is theref ore appropr iat e 
that sustainability repor ting standards should be able to include monetised indicators of sustainability im pacts if 
that is deemed necessar y .
(45) Sustainability repor ting standards should also take account of internati onally recognised pr inciples and frameworks 
on responsible business conduct, cor porate social responsibility , and sustainable development, including the SDGs, 
the UN Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines f or Multinational Enter pr ises, the 
OECD Due Dilig ence Guidance f or Responsible Business Conduct and relat ed sectoral guidelines, the Global 
Com pact, the Intern ational Labour Org anization’s (IL O) T r ipar tit e Declaration of Pr inciples concer ning 
Multinational Enterpr ises and Social P olicy , the ISO 26000 standard on social responsibility , and the UN Pr inciples 
f or Responsible Inv estment.
(
30
) Regulation (EU) 2021/783 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 Apr il 2021 establishing a Programme f or the 
Environment and Climate A ction (LIFE), and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1293/2013 (OJ L 172, 17.5.2021, p. 53).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/29

[Page 16]
(46) It should be ensured that the inf or mation repor ted by under takings in accordance with the sustainability repor ting 
standards meets the needs of users and does not place a dispropor tionat e burden in term s of eff or t and cost on the 
repor ting under takings and those that are indirectly aff ected as par t of the value c hain of those under takings. The 
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the inf or mation that under takings are to disclose on all 
maj or environmental fact ors, including their im pacts and dependencies on climat e, air , land, water and biodiversity . 
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 provid es a classificat ion of the en vironmental objectives of the Union.
For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iat e to use a similar classification to identify the en vironmental fact ors that 
should be addressed by sustainability repor ting standards. The sustainability repor ting standards should consider 
and specify any ge ographical or other conte xtual inf or mation that under takings should disclose to provi de an 
understanding of their pr incipal impa cts on sustainability matt ers and the pr incipal r isks to the under taking ar ising 
from sustainability matt ers. When specifying the inf or mation about en vironmental fact ors that under takings are to 
disclose, coherence should be ensured with the def initions laid down in Ar ticle 2 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and 
the repor ting requirements laid down in Ar ticle 8 of that Regulation and in the delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to 
that Regulation.
(47) With regard to climat e-related inf or mation, users are inte rested in knowing about under takings’ physical and 
transition r isks, and about their resilience as regards, and plans to adap t to, differ ent climate scenar ios and plans to 
adapt to the U nion’s objective of climat e neutrality by 2050. They are also interest ed in the level and scope of GHG 
emissions and removals attr ibuted to the under taking, including the ext ent to whic h the under taking uses offsets 
and the source of those offsets. A c hieving a climat e neutral econom y requires the alignment of GHG accounting 
and offsetting standards. Users need reliable inf or mation regar ding offsets that addresses concer ns regarding 
possible double counting and overestimations, given the r isks to the achi evement of climate -related targets that 
double counting and o verestimations can creat e. Users are also inte rested to know the eff or ts made by compan ies to 
effe ctively reduce absolute GHG emissions as par t of their climate mitigation and adaptation strategies, including 
scope 1, scope 2 and, where relevant, scope 3 emissions.
With regard to scope 3 emissions, a pr ior ity f or users is to receive inf or mation about whic h scope 3 catego r ies are 
signif icant in the case of the under taking, and about the emissions in each of those scope 3 catego r ies. The 
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the inf or mation under takings should repor t with regar d 
to such matters.
(48) A c hieving a climat e-neutral and circular economy without diffuse pollution requires the full mobilisation of all 
economic sect ors. Reducing energy use and increasing energy effi ciency is ke y in this respect, as energy is used 
across supply c hains. Energy aspects should theref ore be duly considered in sustainability repor ting standards, in 
par ticular in relation to envi ronmental matte rs, including climat e-related matt ers.
(49) Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose on social fact ors, 
including working conditions, social par tner inv olvement, collective bargaining, equality , non-discr imination, 
diversity and inclusion, and human r ights. Such inf or mation should cover the impacts of the under taking on 
people, including w orkers, and on human health. The inf or mation that under takings disclose about human r ights 
should include inf or mation about f orced labour and child labour in their value c hains where relevant. Sustainability 
repor ting requirements concer ning f orced labour should not free public author ities of their responsibility to address, 
through trade policy and diplomatic means, the im por t of goods produced as a result of human r ights abuses, 
including f orced labour . U nder takings should also be able to repor t on possible r isks and trends regarding 
emplo yment and incomes.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address social fact ors should specify the inf or mation that under takings 
should disclose with regard to the pr inciples of the European Pillar of Social Rights that are relevant to businesses, 
including equal oppor tunities f or all and w orking conditions. The A ction Plan on the European Pillar of Social 
Rights, adop ted by the Commission on 4 Marc h 2021 , calls f or stronger requirements on under takings to repor t on 
social issues. The sustainability repor ting standards should also specify the inf or mation that under takings should 
disclose with regar d to the human r ights, fundamental freedoms, democratic pr inciples and standards established in 
the Internati onal Bill of Human Rights and other core UN human r ights con ventions, including the UN Convention 
on the Rights of P ersons with Disabilities, the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indige nous P eoples, the UN 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/30 16.12.2022