--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C62
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 17
Word Range: 16001 - 16250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 17]
Conv ention on the Rights of the Child, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Pr inciples and Rights at W ork , the 
fundamental conventions of the ILO, the European Conv ention f or the Protection of Human Rights and 
Fundamental Freedoms, the European Social Char ter , and the Char te r of Fundamental Rights of the European 
U nion. Repor ting car r ied out on social fact ors, as well as on envi ronmental and govern ance f actors, should be 
propor tionat e to the scope and the goals of this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards that address 
ge nder equality and equal pa y f or w ork of equal value should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be 
repor ted about the gender pa y g ap, taking account of other relevant U nion la w . Sustainability repor ting standards 
that address em plo yment and inclusion of people with disabilities should specify , amongst other things, 
inf or mation to be repor ted about accessibility measures tak en by the under taking.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address training and skills development should specify , amongst other things, 
inf or mation to be repor ted about the propor tion and breakdown of w orkers par ticipating in training. Sustainability 
repor ting standards that address collective bargaining should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be 
disclosed about the existen ce of w ork s councils as well as the existen ce of collective agreements and the propor tion 
of work ers covered by such agreements. Sustainability repor ting standards that address par ticipation of w orke rs 
should specify , amongst other things, inf or mation to be disclosed about the par ticipation of work ers in 
administrative and super visor y boards. Sustainability repor ting standards that address diversity should specify , 
amongst other things, inf or mation to be repor ted on gender diversity at top management and the number of 
members of the under -represented sex on their boards.
(50) Users need inf or mation about govern ance fact ors. Gov er nance f actors that are most relevant to users are liste d by 
author itative repor ting frameworks such as the Global Repor ting Initiative and the T ask Force on Climate-r elated 
Financial Disclosures, as well as by author itative g lobal framewor k s such as the Global Gover nance Pr inciples of the 
Internatio nal Cor porate Gov er nance Networ k and the G20/OECD Pr inciples of Cor porat e Gover nance. 
Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose on govern ance 
fa ctors. Such inf or mation should co ver the role of an under taking’s administrative, manag ement and super visor y 
bodies with regard to sustainability matters, the exper tise and skills needed to fulfil that role or the access such 
bodies have to such exper tise and skills, whether the compan y has a policy in te r ms of incentives which are offered 
to members of those bodies and whic h are linke d to sustainability matt ers, and inf or mation on an under taking’s 
internal control and r isk manag ement system s in relation to the sustainability repor ting process. Users also need 
inf or mation about under takings’ cor porate culture and approach to business ethics, whic h are recognised elements 
of author itative framewor k s on cor porat e governance , such as the Global Gov er nance Pr inciples of the 
Internatio nal Cor porat e Govern ance Network, including inf or mation about anti-cor r uption and anti-br iber y , and 
about the under taking’s activities and commitments aimed at exer ting its political inf luence, including its lobb ying 
activities.
Inf or mation about the management of the under taking and the quality of relationships with customer s, suppliers 
and communities aff ected by the activities of the under taking, helps users to understand an under taking’s r isks and 
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters. Inf or mation about relationships with suppliers includes pa yment practices 
relating to the dat e or per iod f or pa yment, the rat e of inte rest f or late pa yment or the compen sation f or recovery 
costs refe r red to in Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (
31
) . Ever y ye ar , thousands 
of businesses, especially small and medium-sized ent er pr ises (‘SMEs’ ), suffe r an administrative and fi nancial burden 
because the y are paid late, or not at all. Ultimat ely , late pa yments lead to insolvency and bankr uptcy , with 
destr uctive effects on entire value c hains. Increasing the amount of inf or mation about pa yment practices should 
empo wer other under takings to identify promp t and reliable pa ye rs, det ect unfa ir pa yment practices, access 
inf or mation about the businesses the y trade with, and negotiate f airer pa yment term s.
(
31
) Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Febr uar y 2011 on combating late pa yment in commercial 
transactions (OJ L 48, 23.2.2011, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/31