--- PAGE 1 ---
Identifying modern slavery in global supply chains: Leveraging monitoring 
technologies through multi-actor collaboration
Cory Searcy
a , *
, Pavel Castka
b
, Grant Michelson
c
, Xiaoli Zhao
b
a
Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Canada
b
Xi ’ an Jiaotong - Liverpool University, Suzhou, China
c
Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords:
Modern slavery
Technology
Collaboration
Supply chains
Resource dependence theory
ABSTRACT
Monitoring technologies (e.g., worker voice technologies, remote sensors, satellite images) provide additional 
opportunities to improve the identification of modern slavery in supply chains. New collaborations among 
different actors are required to enable these technological capabilities. Yet little is understood about how 
collaboration between actors such as employers, certification and auditing bodies, non-governmental organi -
zations (NGOs), and other vested intermediaries leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery in 
global supply chains. Based on a qualitative inquiry of 32 interviews with leading actors in identifying modern 
slavery, we build upon two domains in the literature: the contracts domain and the conditions domain. Drawing 
on resource dependence theory (RDT), we show that valued resources (finance, access, skills, technology, and 
legitimacy) are held by various interdependent collaborators. We further show that identifying modern slavery 
can be enhanced through leveraging monitoring technologies embedded in collaborations, yet key contingencies 
(modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness) 
facilitate (or inhibit) such an outcome. The paper offers an empirically grounded understanding of collaboration 
mechanisms to detect modern slavery in global supply chains.
1. Introduction
Many companies have increased their efforts to identify modern 
slavery, supported by the growth of modern slavery and due diligence 
legislation around the world. However, the illegal nature of modern 
slavery, the difficulty of recognizing it in practice, and debates about the 
effectiveness of existing initiatives suggest legislation alone is insuffi -
cient ( Stevenson and Cole, 2018 ). Modern slavery is a contested term, 
but it fundamentally concerns the “ severe exploitation of other people 
for personal or commercial gain ” .
1
Severe exploitation remains all too 
common, with millions of people facing controls and limits on their 
freedom, harsh working conditions, and physical and emotional abuse. 
The International Labour Organization (ILO) estimates that as many as 
50 million people remain in modern slavery around the world ( ILO, 
2022 , p. 2).
Efforts to eliminate modern slavery in supply chains are increasingly 
being met by multi-actor collaborations ( Benstead et al., 2018 , 2021 ). 
While there can be differences between supply chains, these can involve 
collaborations between employers, certification and auditing bodies, 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and other vested in -
termediaries. However, the results are often poor, and even organiza -
tions that explicitly focus on addressing modern slavery find it 
challenging to tackle. For example, the chocolate company Tony ’ s 
Chocolonely has long been committed to eliminating child labour, 
forced labour, and human trafficking in its cocoa supply chain, yet it 
acknowledges the sector remains “ full of human rights violations ” .
2
The 
experience of Tony ’ s Chocolonely underlines the need for collaboration 
where all key actors take responsibility for eliminating abuses in the 
supply chain ( Pannekoek et al., 2023 ). Innovative approaches recog -
nizing the need for enhanced collaboration are urgently required to 
This article is part of a special issue entitled: Digitization for Purchasing and Supply published in Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management.
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: cory.searcy@torontomu.ca (C. Searcy), Pavel.Castka@xjtlu.edu.cn (P. Castka), grant.michelson@mq.edu.au (G. Michelson), Lilly.Zhao@xjtlu. 
edu.cn (X. Zhao). 
1
https://www.antislavery.org/slavery-today/modern-slavery/ .
2
https://us.tonyschocolonely.com/pages/our-promise#sectionid-2 .
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management
journal homep age: www. elsevier.com/ locate/purs up
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pursup.2025.101059
Received 17 March 2024; Received in revised form 21 July 2025; Accepted 3 August 2025  
Journal of Purchasing & Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
Available online 6 August 2025 
1478-4092/© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- 
nc-nd/4.0/ ). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
identify modern slavery in global supply chains.
There is a growing body of research demonstrating that technologies 
can help identify modern slavery in supply chains. Technologies dis -
cussed in a modern slavery context typically focus on those that enable 
monitoring of organizational practices and/or traceability of products 
rather than technologies assisting in direct operational processes. Ex -
amples include technologies enabling traceability ( McGrath et al., 
2021 ), blockchain technologies ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), worker voice 
technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 2019 ), or satellite im -
aging technologies ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). We label these technolo -
gies as “monitoring” technologies which can improve data collection, 
data exchange, and data analytics to improve the identification of 
modern slavery ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ). This paper explores how 
multi-actor collaborations leverage monitoring technologies to enhance 
the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. Solutions grounded in 
collaborative approaches to modern slavery offer considerable promise 
( Benstead et al., 2021 ), but little is currently understood about when, 
why, and how these collaborations occur and, critically, how monitoring 
technologies are leveraged through multi-actor collaborations to iden -
tify modern slavery.
Our study is grounded in two perspectives. First, we build on pre -
vious literature in modern slavery with a focus on two domains within it: 
the contracts-focused domain and the conditions-focused domain ( Simpson 
et al., 2021 ). Each domain exhibits unique characteristics that impact 
the choice of both collaborators and monitoring technologies. Second, 
our study utilizes resource dependence theory (RDT). RDT is a highly 
influential theory ( Hillman et al., 2009 ; Ozturk, 2021 ) that seeks to 
understand control between firms from two perspectives: power 
imbalance and mutual dependence (Shiu et al., 2023). In this study, we 
draw on the mutual dependence perspective. The mutual dependence 
perspective can be used to explain when and why different organizations 
collaborate with each other to identify modern slavery. Such motiva -
tions might include strengthening organizational power, autonomy and 
societal acceptance, or legitimacy ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). Impor -
tantly, the mutual dependence perspective recognizes that important 
and necessary resources are held by different collaborators and that 
there are interdependencies between those collaborators and the re -
sources they control ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 1978 ). We do not focus on the 
power imbalance perspective. While it may be argued that mutual 
dependence and power imbalance are connected, our primary interest is 
explaining collaboration rather than competition, as may be implied 
through attention given to power imbalance. While RDT is typically 
concerned with explaining firm survival rather than addressing or 
eliminating injustice, it also provides a lens on the critical role resources 
play in addressing potential reputational and financial risk. Such risks 
can harm firm well-being and, indirectly, their long-term survival, if 
injustices, like modern slavery, are found. With research showing that 
firms can financially benefit if they have a track record of addressing 
modern slavery risk ( Cousins et al. ) , identifying modern slavery through 
collaborative means can be an important step towards risk mitigation 
and firm success.
Building on the above, our research question is: How can multi-actor 
collaborations leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery in 
global supply chains? While there are a range of actors that are potentially 
relevant in the context of modern slavery including unions, consumers 
and investors ( McLaren et al., 2024 ), we focus particularly on collabo -
rations between employers, certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and 
other vested intermediaries. Consistent with RDT, we assume that or -
ganizations pursue collaborations to address gaps in their capabilities 
and/or capacity. This underscores that organizations require resources 
(e.g., data, access, legitimacy, and technology) to facilitate their oper -
ation, reduce uncertainties and risk, and ultimately ensure their sur -
vival. Since few organizations are self-sufficient and leveraging 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery can require unique 
competencies, they must collaborate with other organizations to meet 
capability gaps.
To address our research question, we adopt a qualitative approach. 
We conducted 32 interviews with different organizations involved in 
addressing modern slavery, inclusive of NGOs, business brands, auditing 
firms, individual auditors, technology providers, and regulatory bodies. 
All respondents had extensive experience in the domain of modern 
slavery (such as lawyers, managers, activists, purchasing managers, 
governmental officials), in different regions of the world. The re -
spondents had considerable experience in multi-actor collaboration and 
in the use of technologies in the context of modern slavery and covered a 
wide range of industries. Building on previous studies on modern slavery 
and drawing on RDT to frame and interpret our findings, we demon -
strate that leveraging monitoring technologies in multi-actor collabo -
ration to identify modern slavery is facilitated (or inhibited) by four key 
contingencies: modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross- 
boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness.
2. Conceptual and theoretical background
2.1. Modern slavery and supply chains
Modern slavery is often manifest through indicators such as forced 
work under threat or harm to the worker, owner/employer control (e.g., 
retention of identity documents or passports), restrictions on freedom of 
movement, financial mistreatment (e.g., withholding of wages, under -
payment), and a general dehumanization and commoditization 
( Caruana et al., 2020 ; Crane, 2013 , p. 53). While different economic and 
institutional conditions can precipitate modern slavery ( Moussa et al., 
2022 ), there are important capabilities that firms might utilize to insu -
late, sustain, and profit from such conditions ( Crane, 2013 ). Indeed, it 
has been argued there are multiple business models that can perpetuate 
modern slavery, including models grounded in risk reduction, asset 
leveraging, evading legal minimums, and workers as consumers ( Crane 
et al., 2022 ). Responsibility for the presence of modern slavery rests, at 
least partly, with firm managers and it is within complex organizational 
supply chains where such exploitative practices might be most apparent 
and yet most hidden ( Gold et al., 2015 ; LeBaron, 2021 ; New, 2015 ; 
Shilling et al., 2021 ; Stringer and Michailova, 2018 ).
Legislative developments aimed at eliminating modern slavery 
across numerous jurisdictions along with NGO vigilance have increased 
scrutiny and reputational risk in global supply chains ( Nolan and Bott, 
2018 ; Raj-Reichert, 2020 ). Among the growing examples are the recent 
Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act in the United States and the 
Supply Chain Management Act as part of due diligence legislation in 
Germany. While there is debate about the effectiveness of some of these 
laws, they do raise modern slavery’s public profile ( Islam and Van Sta -
den, 2022 ). Moreover, discovery of modern slavery can heighten 
investor concerns around risk and negatively impact the market value of 
the affected organization ( Nunes, 2018 ) suggesting that greater trans -
parency in supply chains is beneficial ( Kraft and Zheng, 2021 ). Despite 
these advantages, research has indicated that modern slavery is a 
“psychologically distant” or remote idea for many firms ( Simpson et al., 
2021 ).
Two domains have been identified to help structure efforts to reduce 
“psychological distance” from modern slavery ( Simpson et al., 2021 ): 
the contracts-focused domain and the conditions-focused domain. The 
contracts-focused domain focuses predominantly on confirming the 
absence of modern slavery (Ibid). This domain is audit centric, with an 
emphasis on comparing performance relative to a reference point. In 
contrast, the conditions-focused domain is driven by the context in 
which modern slavery occurs and focuses predominantly on identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (Ibid). This domain is typically investi -
gative in nature, with the mindset being to find, disclose, and remediate 
modern slavery in supply chains. However, even when modern slavery is 
found, firms might act defensively regarding the uneven or ambiguous 
public disclosure of the effectiveness of their actions against modern 
slavery ( Meehan and Pinnington, 2021 ; Schaper and Pollach, 2021 ; 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
2 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Stevenson and Cole, 2018 ), or there can be inaction and the failure to 
acknowledge its occurrence ( Stevenson, 2022 ).
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide a granular 
understanding of how to identify modern slavery, recognizing how 
different approaches can lead to different outcomes. However, much like 
firms can simultaneously adopt symbolic and substantive practices to 
address non-financial issues such as quality or sustainability issues 
( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), they can also simultaneously adopt approaches 
that fall within and bridge the contracts- or conditions-focused domains. 
Little is currently understood, however, about how the two domains 
co-exist and how activities within each domain interact. This is impor -
tant given the need to understand how different collaborations can 
leverage different monitoring technologies within and across the two 
domains to identify modern slavery.
2.2. Collaboration to identify modern slavery
Collaboration occurs when “two or more independent companies 
work jointly to plan and execute supply chain operations with greater 
success than when acting in isolation” ( Simatupang and Sridharan, 
2002 ). Given such a broad definition, it is clear that multiple forms of 
collaborations exist in global supply chains, from strategic alliances to 
more arms-length collaborations ( Hayes et al., 2005 ). Moreover, col -
laborations are driven by context: there is no single best way or blue -
print on how different actors collaborate. Fundamentally, collaborations 
are pursued to increase success of involved actors in achieving their 
objectives. These could include, for example, instrumental objectives 
focused on identifying modern slavery to prevent firm reputational 
damage. Collaboration can also be altruistic in nature, recognizing the 
moral obligation to remedy severe worker exploitation ( Pannekoek 
et al., 2023 ).
The main types of supply chain collaboration strategies are hori -
zontal and vertical integration ( Barratt, 2004 ). Horizontal collaboration 
occurs when two or more competing or unrelated firms (at the same 
level of the supply chain) cooperate to share resources, such as 
manufacturing capacity. Horizontal collaboration has been examined in 
response to modern slavery and requires relational capital and effective 
governance mechanisms to succeed ( Benstead et al., 2018 ). Vertical 
collaboration occurs at different levels of the supply chain – with cus -
tomers, internally (across functions), service providers, and with sup -
pliers ( Barratt, 2004 ). Collaborations between different producers, 
distributors and other actors enables a more contextualized approach in 
supply chains ( Caputo and Mininno, 1996 ), arguably providing more 
scope to strengthen labour standards and conditions ( LeBaron, 2021 ).
Collaboration is an area of increasing focus in sustainable supply 
chain research including the need for cross disciplinary scholarship 
( Kach et al., 2025 ), but social concerns, such as extreme labour condi -
tions, have rarely been studied in this context ( Geng et al., 2017 ). Much 
of the limited research that exists focuses on relationships between 
buyers and suppliers, suppliers for a common buyer ( Touboulic and 
Walker, 2015 ), or buyers with common suppliers ( Nidumolu et al., 
2014 ). Collaborative practices to identify modern slavery are critical, as 
they do not just impact source firms but can enhance the capabilities of 
other actors to reduce modern slavery risks, such as suppliers ( Emberson 
et al., 2022 ). Suppliers may adapt their vertical and horizontal re -
lationships to reduce the risk of modern slavery through strategies such 
as horizontal systemization, vertical systemization, horizontal trans -
formation, and vertical differentiation ( Emberson et al., 2022 ). The 
implication is that collaboration recognizes and promotes agency among 
the different actors to enact a range of complementary and mutually 
beneficial outcomes for all.
Collaborations beyond supplier and buyer relationships, particularly 
in a modern slavery context, can involve direct interventions, awareness 
campaigns, or government advocacy for policy changes, among others. 
Collaboration to combat modern slavery typically starts by building 
coalitions where firms, NGOs, and government agencies mobilize 
around a common goal ( Gutierrez-Huerter et al., 2023 ). Many initiatives 
focus on raising awareness to help prevent exploitation ( Bales, 2012 ), or 
on training and capacity building. Corporations, NGOs, and govern -
ments often work together to train law enforcement, immigration offi -
cials, and social service providers on human trafficking issues ( Raineri 
and Strazzari, 2022 ). Collaboration on supplier audits is another form of 
collaboration. Based on a study of 35 brands, an NGO, and a trade body, 
Benstead et al. (2018) investigated how horizontal collaboration can 
enable responses to modern slavery legislation in the textiles and fashion 
industry. Fransen and LeBaron (2019) examined the role of the “Big 
Four” audit firms in services connected to transnational labor gover -
nance. Drawing on a case study linked to modern slavery, they found 
that auditing firms “engage in a variety of informal and covert influ -
encing practices”, such as in promoting incremental improvements to 
soft-law labor governance and serving as civil society’s independent 
watchdog ( Fransen and LeBaron, 2019 , p. 260). Gold et al. (2015) also 
highlighted the need for multi-actor approaches to address modern 
slavery.
2.3. Using technology to identify modern slavery in supply chains
Technology can be broadly defined as “the practical application of 
knowledge especially in a particular area” or “a manner of accom -
plishing a task especially using technical processes, methods, or 
knowledge”, among many other possible formulations.
3
In this paper, 
we focus specifically on monitoring technologies. Monitoring technol -
ogies can be classified as a form of “indirect” technologies. Unlike direct 
technologies (i.e., technologies that enable transformation of inputs into 
outputs, such as trucks, flexible manufacturing systems or material 
processing technologies), indirect technologies focus on controlling and 
coordinating direct processes. Technology has been used to support 
broader social compliance audits, with a recent Gartner report providing 
a set of categories to structure thinking about its potential application 
( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ).
Table 1 groups monitoring technologies into three main categories: 
technologies enabling data collection, data exchange, and data ana -
lytics. First, monitoring technologies can be used for data collection, 
either on-site or in a specific geographic area. For example, landlines 
and video cameras are frequently used at the facility-level. Data 
collection can be enabled by the use of satellite imaging in a broader 
geographic area ( Reid and Castka, 2023 ). Second, monitoring technol -
ogies can be used for data exchange. Technologies can be used to ensure 
interoperability between actors, which is important for any form of 
collaboration ( Herding and Fischer, 2015 ). At a facility, for example, 
smart phones might be used by auditors to upload data in shareable 
formats to apps connected to broader audit platforms ( Castka and 
Searcy, 2023 ). Blockchain can then provide an unalterable ledger to 
provide confidence on product provenance throughout a supply chain. 
Third, monitoring technologies can be used to help draw conclusions 
about the data collected through data analytics. For example, algorthims 
could be developed to predict modern slavery hotspots. Research on the 
specific use of technologies to identify modern slavery has started to 
emerge, including the use of technology to improve product traceability 
( McGrath et al., 2021 ), using blockchain ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), 
applying worker voice technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 
2019 ), and applying satellite imaging ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). More 
broadly, institutional pressures have been shown to encourage digital 
technology adoption by firms seeking to alleviate modern slavery risks 
( Jiang et al., 2023 ).
Technology is being increasingly incorporated to facilitate collabo -
rations between different actors and optimize the use and allocation of 
resources ( Castka and Searcy, 2023 ). These collaborations are usually 
initiated by a focal actor needing resources to accomplish their 
3
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/technology .
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
3 

--- PAGE 4 ---
objective, but there are several potential barriers to collaboration that 
seek to leverage technology. Different technologies used by suppliers 
throughout a supply chain can be an important barrier to collaboration, 
but many potentially “ intractable ” barriers are rooted in people issues, 
such as “ culture, trust, aversion to change, and willingness to collabo -
rate ” ( Fawcett et al., 2008 ). Overcoming these barriers is essential to 
successfully leverage monitoring technologies in multi-actor collabora -
tions. For example, in a modern slavery context, an auditing firm may 
collaborate with NGOs for access to genuine employee perspectives or 
local communities ( Taylor and Shih, 2019 ). Technologies play a role in 
addressing collaborative challenges that exist between these actors. For 
instance, actors involved in supplier auditing are exposed to legitimacy 
risks due to poor timeliness and veracity in supplier auditing ( Castka 
et al., 2020 ). Data collection can be enabled through the use of mobile 
apps ( Locke, 2013 ), which allow for faster data exchange. Mobile apps 
and other technologies also permit the collection of greater amounts of 
data – in part mitigating bias ( Solymosi and Bowers, 2018 ). Machine 
learning and artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to identify patterns 
of trafficking and slavery in large datasets, making it easier to identify 
at-risk areas or at-risk individuals ( Land and Barry, 2021 ). Technology 
could thus help NGOs, firms, and regulatory agencies to share pertinent 
data and work together more effectively.
Technology, however, is not a panacea. There is potentially a dark 
side to the use of monitoring technology, such as strengthening the 
ability to control employees through surveillance or serving as a cover 
for minimal or no performance improvement ( Mol, 2010 ). Research is 
also emerging on the potential dissatisfaction in adopting supply chain 
technologies, such as blockchain, the Internet of Things (IoT), and 
artificial intelligence (AI) ( Sodhi et al., 2022 ). As Sodhi et al. (2022 , p. 
2517) explain, the perceived benefits “ depend on the interaction be -
tween technology and the users, not on the technology alone ” . This point 
is supported by Marques et al. (2024) , who demonstrated that, while 
blockchain is often promoted as a solution to supply chain transparency 
problems, this can be substantially undermined by a lack of trust be -
tween supply chain partners. Blockchain can also introduce additional 
unanticipated costs and risks ( Murray et al., 2021 ). Technology can thus 
create “ inflated expectations ” ( Sodhi et al., 2022 ) in supply chain 
management, including in the ability to identify modern slavery. Suc -
cessfully leveraging monitoring technology to identify modern slavery is 
therefore contingent on multi-actor collaborations grounded in trust, a 
genuine willingness to collaborate, and a recognition of its limitations.
2.4. Theoretical underpinnings
There are many actors (e.g., businesses, service providers, NGOs, 
auditors, employees, etc.) as identified by McLaren et al. (2024) , and 
monitoring technologies (e.g., blockchain, remote sensing and satellites, 
worker voice applications, etc.) that may be necessary to identify 
modern slavery. While institutional theory and global value chain the -
ory are the most frequently used theories in modern slavery and supply 
chains research ( Strand et al., 2024 , p. 6), we pursue a different line of 
inquiry. We draw on resource dependence theory (RDT) as a lens for our 
study. RDT understands control between firms from two perspectives: 
power imbalance and mutual dependence ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). While 
power imbalances exist within supply chains and can impact the ability 
to identify modern slavery, we regard this perspective as highly suited to 
accounting for competitive situations. Our focus in this study is on the 
mutual dependence perspective and its ability to explain multi-actor 
collaboration. Previous research has shown that mutual dependence 
has a positive impact on collaborative performance ( Casciaro and Pis -
korski, 2005 ; Shiu et al., 2023 ). Therefore, consistent with Shiu et al. 
(2023 , p. 2), we adopt the view that “ a firm needs to devote time and 
resources towards coordinating other firms in order to obtain resources 
for its strategic goals ” . The mutual dependence perspective underpins 
our theoretical approach, since it emphasizes the need for multiple ac -
tors, often spread across multiple jurisdictions, to work together to 
identify modern slavery.
RDT is primarily concerned with understanding and explaining firm 
survival. RDT argues that for an organization to survive, it must acquire 
valued and necessary resources, but that these resources are often held 
by others ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 1978 ). This creates uncertainty for or -
ganizations, precipitating them to manage their environmental uncer -
tainty and resource acquisition in different ways. Resources can be 
tangible or intangible assets that are viewed as organizational strengths 
( Wernerfelt, 1984 ). Resources could be direct, such as labour and raw 
materials, or they could be indirect, such as favourable legislation. Re -
sources could also be considered from the perspective of substantive 
resources, such as cash flow and technology, or symbolic resources, such 
as legitimacy and reputation ( Meyer and Rowan, 1977 ). Different or -
ganizations hold and control different resources and, to mitigate risks 
and survive, organizations must interact with other entities which 
control them ( Scott and Davis, 2015 ).
Organizations are conceptualized as open systems embedded in a 
network of interdependencies with other organizations ( Pfeffer and 
Salancik, 1978 ). The interdependence with other organizations lies in 
the availability of different (valued) resources and demand for them. For 
example, service providers require clients to use the technology they are 
selling to help identify modern slavery. NGOs require resources to fund 
their social objectives but also appreciate that firms value the legitimacy 
they can provide ( Michelson and Wray-Bliss, 2024 ). RDT helps explain 
which actors (and why) help provide valued resources – including 
monitoring technologies – at particular points in time (the when). 
Moreover, collaboration shows how different dependencies in modern 
slavery are managed. If we consider that modern slavery can threaten 
firms, specifically by exacerbating reputational and financial risk, the 
use of monitoring technology can either illuminate or conceal modern 
slavery practices ( Marques et al., 2024 ). It can therefore subsequently 
Table 1 
Illustrative examples of using technology to identify modern slavery in supply 
chains.
Category Illustrative examples of monitoring technologies and their use
Data 
collection
• Supply chain mapping technologies: platforms and tools that help 
companies visualize their supply chains based on data gathered 
on supplier locations, relationships, and product flows.
• Worker voice technologies and hotlines: facilitate direct reporting 
from workers on abuse, exploitation, and unsafe working 
conditions by collecting real-time data.
• Auditing technologies: use of digital platforms to manage audit 
data, including worker interviews, facility inspections, and 
document reviews.
• Satellite monitoring and remote sensing: collection of imagery 
and sensor-based data related to deforestation, illegal mining, and 
other activities that may be linked to modern slavery.
• Open data and publicly available resources: gathering data from 
government reports, NGO databases, social media, and news 
articles to identify risk factors.
Data 
exchange
• Blockchain technology: facilitates secure and transparent data 
exchange between different actors in the supply chain; allows for 
tracking products from origin to consumer and verifying claims 
related to ethical sourcing.
• Supplier ethical data exchange: enables companies to share 
responsible sourcing data with their suppliers and customers (e.g., 
Sedex).
• Cloud-based platforms: allows companies to share information 
about suppliers, audit results, and other relevant data with 
stakeholders, potentially in real-time.
Data 
analytics
• Big Data and AI-powered analytics: assemble large datasets from 
various sources (e.g., supply chain mapping, audits, worker re -
ports, news articles, etc.) to analyze data and identify high-risk 
suppliers or regions based on various indicators.
• Natural Language Processing: use of NLP to analyze text data (e. 
g., news articles, social media posts) to identify potential cases of 
modern slavery.
• Geospatial analysis: analyze geographical data to identify areas 
with high concentrations of vulnerable populations or industries 
known for forced/exploited workers.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
4 

--- PAGE 5 ---
shape how collaborations occur – with whom, when, and why. The ca -
pacity of organizations seeking to identify modern slavery therefore 
depends on the available resources. We posit that such resources can be 
acquired and subsequently deployed through collaborative means, and 
is one important step towards risk mitigation and firm survival.
Some scholars have contended that RDT has confounded the separate 
dimensions of power imbalance or differentials between organizations 
and the idea of mutual dependence on each other in the construct of 
interdependence ( Casciaro and Piskorski, 2005 ). That is, organizations 
may leverage their extant power to increase their influence on others 
over time, thereby reducing their dependency (Shen et al., 2022). There 
is some merit to this claim, but as explained earlier our focus is primarily 
on mutual dependence. Nonetheless, we note that organizations with 
more power than others need not exercise or impose this power, espe -
cially when seeking legitimacy or societal acceptance around the issue of 
modern slavery. Organizations can build trust over time, especially 
when there are asymmetries in power and other resources between ac -
tors that collaborate ( Gulati and Sytch, 2007 ; Mosch et al., 2021 ). A 
meta-analysis of previous studies that have used RDT confirms this 
tendency by showing if organizations are primarily interested in 
improving their legitimacy, they create interorganizational collabora -
tions that create visible linkages with other reputable organizations; if 
organizations are primarily motivated to improve their autonomy, they 
create collaborations with other organizations that preserve their flexi -
bility (see Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). Moreoever, as Shiu et al. (2023 , p. 
9) have explained, “firms should not only manage their mutual de -
pendencies but also consider how their actions may affect indirect 
interfirm relationships beyond the direct mutual dependence itself”.
It is important to acknowledge that dependence within a RDT 
framework is sometimes considered undesirable ( Ozturk, 2021 , p. 547). 
However, there are certain costs with maintaining independence and 
autonomy when different organizational actors try to identify modern 
slavery. We argue that collaborations are fundamentally connected to 
purposes grounded in RDT. Collaborations ultimately come down to 
accessing valued resources held by others. In a modern slavery context, 
these resources can include financing, access, skills, and legitimacy. 
Each resource has a unique role in the process of identifying modern 
slavery. For example, skills (to perform auditing and investigation) are 
critical to identify modern slavery. Actors can (potentially) optimize the 
use of these skills (i.e., auditing skills, analytics skills, etc.) through 
collaboration and thus improve the likelihood of identifying modern 
slavery. Critics might contend that this may perpetuate an instrumental, 
rather than ethical, approach to the identification of modern slavery. 
However, the meta-analysis of RDT by Drees and Heugens (2013) con -
firms that the theory can also account for firm actions that are motivated 
by meeting societal norms and expectations as opposed to only 
addressing financial performance (survival). In this context, technolo -
gies can further leverage other resources. For example, monitoring 
technologies can support auditors on the ground (e.g., wearable com -
puters, apps for data collection) or can facilitate access to a larger pool of 
vulnerable respondents (e.g., through worker voice technologies). A 
representative overview of resources and their role in identifying mod -
ern slavery is shown in Table 2 .
The necessity of managing interorganizational relations is particu -
larly salient in global supply chains ( Mosch et al., 2021 ) given the 
prevalence of power and dependence noted above. Collaboration can 
bring together the resources that help firms achieve their strategic goals 
( Shiu et al., 2023 ), in this case identifying modern slavery. While col -
laborations and resources can change over time, the ability to identify 
modern slavery is grounded in mutual dependence. This is particularly 
salient in situations where formal authority is unlikely to be sufficient to 
address a highly complex problem. Identifying modern slavery requires 
substantial social capital, including the need for collective action to 
build trust, legitimacy, and capacity in difficult environments. The 
literature shows that mutual dependencies are more likely to emerge 
when firms cannot rely on formal authority and must build social capital 
( Shiu et al., 2023 ).
3. Methods
3.1. Research approach
Studies of modern slavery in supply chains remain in their embryonic 
stage and often struggle to secure access to robust and representative 
data. Modern slavery is also difficult to measure directly and it is often 
manifested through proxy indicators requiring significant judgment.
Our research question focused on how multi-actor collaborations can 
leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery. We are not 
focused on any particular monitoring technology (such as worker voice 
technologies or blockchain which was the objective of Jiang et al., 
2023 ); our aim is to explore how collaboration between actors such as 
employers, certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and other vested 
intermediaries might leverage these technologies to support identifying 
modern slavery in global supply chains. Our point of departure is that 
the research is best addressed by those with direct experience in iden -
tifying modern slavery. Our approach was guided, therefore, by gath -
ering detailed insights from experts in the field through a qualitative 
study.
3.2. Data sources and data collection
We approached experts that held leading roles in institutions with 
Table 2 
Illustrative examples of resources for identifying modern slavery.
Resource Importance of the 
resource for 
identifying modern 
slavery
The potential of 
collaboration to 
leverage the 
resource
The potential of 
technology to 
leverage the resource
Financing Resourcing of 
audits and 
investigations is 
critical
Collaborations can 
optimize allocation 
of financial 
resources to 
operationalize 
audits and 
investigations to 
identify modern 
slavery
Technologies can 
provide tools to 
increase efficiency of 
audits (i.e., audit 
platforms utilize data 
in multiple audits and 
address the issue of 
duplication of audits)
Access Access to local 
environments is 
critical for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Collaborations can 
provide access to 
local environments 
(e.g., access to local 
informants) to 
improve the 
potential for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Technologies 
facilitate access to 
respondents in 
locations (e.g., 
hotlines) and/or 
allow scaling up 
communication with 
local respondents (e. 
g., worker voice 
technologies)
Skills Auditing and 
investigative skills 
are an essential 
mechanism for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Collaborations can 
optimize the use of 
unique skills 
possessed by each 
actor (e.g., auditing 
skills, analytics 
skills, etc.) to 
improve the 
potential for the 
identification of 
modern slavery
Technologies provide 
support for actors to 
utilize their skills (e. 
g., auditors use 
wearable computers 
or use apps for data 
collection) and/or 
facilitate access to 
local data (e.g., data 
platforms can use 
analytics to 
determine hotspots)
Legitimacy Audits and 
investigations need 
to be perceived as 
legitimate
Collaborations can 
increase legitimacy 
of audits and 
investigations
Technologies can 
improve veracity and 
timeliness of audits 
and, hence, 
potentially 
strengthen the 
legitimacy of audits 
and investigations
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
5 

--- PAGE 6 ---
global outreach. For example, we spoke with purchasing directors 
directly involved in developing approaches to identify modern slavery in 
their complex supply chains. We also targeted experienced NGO di -
rectors who have overseen projects with numerous collaborators, 
including corporations, their suppliers, and other NGOs. We recruited 
senior experts responsible for overseeing certifications bodies and their 
activities. These individuals have access to numerous audit reports, data 
on grievances, and non-compliance, which provides them with unique 
insight into the problem. Overall, we recruited individuals directly 
involved in identifying modern slavery, particularly through using 
monitoring technology leveraged through collaborations.
While Table 3 lists the experts ’ role at the time of the study, many 
had progressive experience in a variety of roles directly related to our 
research question. For instance, while there were a large number of 
Table 3 
List of participants and interview details (n = 32).
Actor Group Role Outreach in global supply chains Years with the 
organization
# of 
interviews
Code
NGOs Co-director Co-leading a coalition of 30 plus organizations 12 years 2 MS1, 
MS5
Co-director Co-leading a coalition of 30 plus organizations 11 years 2 MS2, 
MS4
Program Director A knowledge platform addressing cross-boundary interactions; 
working mainly with financial services, apparel & footwear, 
hospitality providers and retailers
4 years 1 MS6
Director A leader in technology adoption to monitor human trafficking 7 years 1 MS11
Sustainability Director Provides research, training, consulting, and policy advocacy across a 
variety of sectors globally in over 70 countries
2 years 1 MS14
Managing Director A global NGO focusing on anti-trafficking projects concentrated in 
technology, financial crimes, and regulatory frameworks
11 years 1 MS21
Chief Impact Officer A global NGO operating across three continents in the conditions- 
domain
6 years 1 MS22
Chief Technical Advisor An agency bringing together governments, employers and workers 
addressing cross-boundary interactions
10 years 1 MS25
Senior Advisor Focusing of seafood industry; leads collaborative projects across the 
Asia Pacific region
3 years 1 MS30
Technical and Projects 
advisor
A global actor providing education, advocacy and third-party 
assurances in the seafood sector
18 years 1 MS32
Firms Director of Sustainability A global multinational company from the food industry with an 
extensive network of partners across both domains
5 years 1 MS10
Sustainability Director A global omni-channel retailer overseeing modern slavery in supply 
chains of global fashion brands
4 years 1 MS15
Sustainability Officer A global omni-channel retailer overseeing modern slavery in supply 
chains of global fashion brands
3 years 1 MS16
Group Ethical Sourcing 
Manager
A global food retailer overseeing modern slavery in food supply 
chains
3 years 1 MS19
Senior Human Rights 
Manager
A global food retailer overseeing modern slavery in food supply 
chains
5 years 1 MS20
Service provider – 
accreditation, certification 
body
President & CEO Providing governance over auditors ’ competence; a global outreach 
with insights into auditors ’ competence and compliance
6 years 1 MS9
Founder and Director Primarily an auditing firm assisting clients to develop compliance 
mechanisms
3 years 1 MS8
Social Project Manager A global governing body with insights into the performance of leading 
certifiers across 70 plus countries
1 year 1 MS13
Strategic Development 
Director
Leader of a team of global assessors that oversee a network of actors 
operating in various industries across 70 + countries
14 years 1 MS17
Manager A global actor providing education, advocacy, and third-party 
assurances in the seafood sector
5 years 1 MS31
Freelance Auditor An auditor with extensive experience with a global governance body, 
currently working as an auditor and auditor rights advocate
15 years 1 MS18
Service provider - 
technologies
Head of Social Research 
& UK Operations
A data platform provider working with multiple supply chain actors 
that share data and insights
4 years 1 MS12
Director of Programs A multi-channel mobile platform for engaging actors and measuring 
risks; working with energy, mining, agribusiness, and others
8 years 2 MS3, 
MS7
Senior Sustainability 
Expert
A data platform provider working with multiple supply chain actors 
that share data and insights
3 years 1 MS23
Service provider – 
consultancy, training & 
research
Vice President Asia 
Pacific
Provides research, training, consulting, and policy advocacy across a 
variety of sectors globally
9 years 1 MS24
Senior Program Director Provides research, training, consulting, and policy advocacy across a 
variety of sectors globally in over 70 countries
17 years 1 MS26
Executive Director and 
Founder
Focuses on loopholes in domestic and international legal regimes to 
hold companies accountable for abuses in their global supply chains
6 years 1 MS27
Senior Advisor A group of 70 plus organizations providing research, advisory and 
training services focusing on global health, economic development, 
and gender
6 years 1 MS28
Executive Director A director of a research centre leading research in modern slavery 
(with previous experience with a global regulatory body)
3 years 1 MS29
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
6 

--- PAGE 7 ---
directors in our sample, those roles were often preceded by on-the- 
ground experience in auditing, consultation, and advocacy on modern 
slavery. Importantly, our respondents were also involved in oversight of 
a large number of actors and across a wide variety of sectors (e.g., 
agriculture, seafood, manufacturing). While these respondents were not 
able to share any confidential data with us, their experience positions 
them well to answer broader questions about collaborations and tech -
nology adoption. We believe this to be a strength of our data – our ex -
perts had experiences across the different roles and organizations 
involved in modern slavery. Therefore, while we have categorized the 
respondents by five actor groups in Table 3 , this is based on their roles at 
the time of the study. Many of the respondents could have been cate -
gorized into other groups at different points in their careers.
The main source of data for this study were 32 semi-structured in -
terviews conducted between August and December 2021. A recent 
report by Gartner provided background on actors involved in modern 
slavery ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ). Initially, we developed a list of 10 
global NGOs and initiated our interviews with them. We aimed to cap -
ture a variety of perspectives and were guided by referrals from them to 
increase and diversify our pool of respondents. As noted, all of the ex -
perts were deeply involved in modern slavery and had served in many 
roles to help address it, such as managing supply chains, technology 
providers, advocacy groups, victim support, and leading multi-actor 
initiatives.
The interviews lasted an hour each on average and were conducted 
over Zoom. All interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim. 
During the interviews, we were guided by a set of open-ended questions. 
We probed the respondents if needed – keeping the research question in 
mind. For example, we asked “Can you highlight some innovative 
practices that help detect modern slavery in firm’s supply chains?”, “Is 
there any opportunity for ongoing use of technologies in firm audits?”, 
and “What are some of the technologies that you use to help give you 
visibility and assurance in the company supply chain?” We followed-up 
with probing questions such as “How do you triangulate the data?”, 
“How have different technologies helped provide greater visibility and 
transparency from your organization’s perspective?”, and “Do worker 
voice technologies lead to the identification of modern slavery?” We also 
explicitly asked all respondents about the roles played by the different 
actors in identifying modern slavery.
3.3. Data analysis
Broadly, we started the analysis with our research question. We also 
grounded our analysis in the literature and theory. As shown in Table 4 , 
we observed the existence of two domains identified in the literature 
( Gold et al., 2015 ; Simpson et al., 2021 ), i.e., the contracts- and 
conditions-focused domains. Consequently, in the analysis, we focused 
on the differences in how organizations cooperate in these domains and 
how ‘domain membership’ shapes the collaboration. As discussed earlier 
in the paper, we were also guided by RDT, with an emphasis on mutual 
dependencies.
We then performed two key rounds of data analysis. The data anal -
ysis followed procedures that are commonly adopted in qualitative 
research, including best practice for using quotes to present claims 
( Rockmann and Vough, 2024 ). We did not have any a priori coding 
scheme and “let the data speak” ( Huxham and Vangen, 2000 ). Whilst 
performing the first round of scanning through the data we focused on 
developing broader understanding of (a) what collaborations organiza -
tions pursue and why; (b) how technologies are used in collaborations; 
and (c) how the unique context affects the collaborations and use of 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery. After performing 
the first inspection of the data, we identified high-level patterns linked 
to those three questions (see Table 4 ). We compared our findings (the 
authors conducted the coding independently) and, as shown in Table 4 , 
grouped the patterns into preliminary themes. In the second round of 
analysis, we focused on establishing the linkages between the 
preliminary themes and the outcome of identifying modern slavery. As 
part of this process, we identified four key contingencies. The contin -
gencies formed the basis for the conceptual framework outlined in 
Section 5.1 .
4. Findings
This section presents the results of our data analysis. Building on the 
data analysis procedures described in Section 3 , we present the findings 
Table 4 
Overview of data analysis.
Points of departure Preliminary themes Contingencies
Research Question 
How can multi-actor 
collaborations leverage 
monitoring 
technologies to identify 
modern slavery in 
global supply chains? 
Theoretical 
underpinnings 
There are two domains 
of modern slavery: 
contracts- and 
conditions-focused. 
RDT’s mutual 
dependence perspective 
helps explain when and 
why different 
organizations 
collaborate with each 
other. 
There are inter- 
dependencies between 
collaborations and the 
use of monitoring 
technologies to identify 
modern slavery.
Collaboration 
motivation The 
motivations to 
collaborate underpin 
expectations on how 
modern slavery activities 
are organized, including 
which actors are 
engaged.
Modern slavery posture 
This is characterized by 
the contracts- and 
conditions- focused 
domains.
Modern slavery 
domains The two 
domains of modern 
slavery (i.e., contracts- 
and conditions-focused 
domains) each have their 
own modus operandi, 
which impacts 
approaches to 
identifying modern 
slavery.
Collaboration modes 
There are two levels of 
collaborations to identify 
modern slavery across 
the two domains: micro- 
and macro-levels.
Collaboration scope 
This is characterized by 
micro- and macro-level 
collaborations.
Trust building Trust is a 
foundation of close 
collaboration (e.g., data 
collection, exchange, 
and analytics) within 
and across the two levels.
Boundary spanning 
activities The two 
domains and levels are 
co-existing and 
connected; they do not 
operate in isolation.
Cross-boundary 
interactions This is 
characterized by 
collaborations between 
different motivation 
postures and different 
collaboration scopes.Activity alignment To 
leverage technology 
through collaborations, 
actors must recognize 
mutual dependencies in 
aligning their activities.
Resource access 
Identifying modern 
slavery in different 
contexts requires access 
to different 
combinations of 
resources held by 
different actors.
Contextual 
embeddedness This is 
characterized by tailored 
approaches to identifying 
modern slavery grounded 
in collaborations between 
key actors.
Context matching 
Resources, including 
technologies, must be 
matched to the unique 
context and 
collaborations in any 
supply chain, 
considering potential 
adverse effects.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
7 

--- PAGE 8 ---
around our four key contingencies, focusing on how they facilitate (or 
inhibit) identifying modern slavery by leveraging monitoring technol -
ogies through multi-actor collaboration. Collectively, the findings pro -
vide a basis for directly answering our research question.
4.1. Modern slavery posture
Modern slavery posture refers to the reason why an organization 
pursues collaboration. There are many reasons why various actors in 
supply chains do not want modern slavery to be found. For example, it 
can be highly profitable for those exploiting others. However, they could 
also be severely punished if it is located, such as reputational risk for a 
firm, or criminal liability for an individual. Motivation is thus impactful 
in determining the modern slavery posture of any given actor – a firm, 
auditing body or NGO. This is illustrated by the following quote: 
“In terms of how difficult is it to find, it is. It depends on whether 
you’re looking for it and it depends on whether you want to find it.” 
MS4
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide contrasting 
environments in which modern slavery is identified. We note that many 
interviewees indicated the existence of these domains, though the ter -
minology used to describe them varied. For example: 
“I think those are kind of the two camps that I’ve noticed. One kind 
tends to be used to cater to corporations’ risk-based approach and 
then the NGOs tend to come in for more continuous improvement 
approach. Or not necessarily always NGOs, they could be consul -
tancies, they could be social enterprises, but I think there’s a bit more 
potentially, a more holistic approach to looking at the root cause 
rather than a compliance-based approach.” MS7
In the contracts-focused domain, firms seek collaborations and 
secure resources predominantly to acquire compliance with standards 
and other reference points. In fact, respondents frequently referred to 
this domain as the “compliance-domain” in the interviews. Firms are 
increasingly pushed to address modern slavery through audits, certifi -
cations, and other compliance mechanisms and look for actors that can 
provide such services. We also heard many comments about audits 
focused on confirming the absence of modern slavery, in many cases as a 
mechanism to avoid trouble. To illustrate, 
“I think that the compliance-based approach is very familiar to 
companies. So, I think many of them still seek social audits as from a 
compliance-based perspective and a risk mitigation, risk minimiza -
tion perspective. But there is definitely a trend now and a lot of 
spotlight on companies that move away from trouble, some suppliers 
or regions or commodities, rather than actually working with the 
supply chain to improve it.” MS7
The contracts domain is thus characterized by actors whose primary 
interest is in confirming the absence of modern slavery in their supply 
chains, not necessarily identifying (and remediating) it. Moreover, this 
domain is dominated by firms and service providers. Although other 
actors might get involved (e.g., an NGO might assist with data collec -
tion), this involvement tends to be limited or reduced to symbolic col -
laborations. Notably, and consistent with RDT, the firms and service 
providers have significant control and discretion over the allocation of 
resources and their use. For example, the audits (and related data) have 
a commercial value, which is protected and leveraged for the benefit of 
participating actors (i.e., a certificate demonstrates absence of modern 
slavery). Actors in the contracts-focused domain are primarily con -
cerned with improvements of the audit process, such as cost-cutting or 
audit integration.
In the conditions-focused domain, actors are interested in identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (and then working to remediate it). This 
domain is dominated by NGOs, labour unions, and other actors whose 
raison d’etre is different from firms seeking compliance and 
certification. These actors also employ different mechanisms to identify 
modern slavery: there is less focus on audits and more focus on inves -
tigative work and working with local communities as the following 
quote illustrates: 
“NGOs are going to identify [modern slavery] better, but also it’s not 
just sort of putting a red dot on a map to say there is forced labour 
there. An NGO is going to do a better job of working with a local 
community and identifying what the appropriate remedy is. Because, 
in the end what’s going to prevent forced labour in a particular in -
dustry or what’s going to stop existing forced labour or what’s going 
to remedy forced labour is kind of context specific.” MS27
Recognizing the two modern slavery domains has important rami -
fications for selecting collaborating partners since each domain has 
different aims and approaches to identifying modern slavery. From a 
RDT perspective, for instance, it means that actors seek to secure 
different resources and align (or naturally drift toward) a domain that 
provides such resources and which allows the actors control over the 
allocation of resources for their intended purpose. An example might be 
a firm that seeks to legitimize practices in their supply chains (but not 
necessarily improve these practices), is likely to collaborate with actors 
that provide such service. Consequently, the selection and adaptation of 
technologies also serves as a tool to leverage the legitimization of supply 
chain practices. For example, worker voice technologies (WVT) can be 
used to actively conceal labour issues by careful selection of participants 
or through persecution of whistle blowers. Hotlines can be similarly 
used to monitor the workforce and identify workers the company may 
view as problematic. Conversely, technologies supporting more genuine 
motivations can have the opposite effect.
The adoption of specific monitoring technologies is driven by the 
objectives of the collaboration. For example, an organization may seek 
improvements to its data collection process to achieve greater audit 
efficiency – a typical approach for actors operating in the contracts 
focused domain. Actors involved in audits can benefit from the digita -
lization of the audit process enabled by various technologies (e.g., data 
collection platforms; phone-based apps, etc.). As the following quote 
illustrates, this can enhance audit efficiency: 
“I think technology in the audit process, I mean certainly one thing 
that’s helped is for the auditors to be able to answer the questions. On 
their audit protocol for them to be able to go through and answer 
those questions you know kind of in real time. And you know just 
save them time and energy and also as soon as you’re writing a piece 
of paper and transferring it. […] The fact that the reports get auto -
matically uploaded to [audit platform X] or [audit platform Y] or 
whomever I think that’s also really helpful …” MS9
4.2. Collaboration scope
We found two principal modes of collaborations: micro-level collab -
orations enable identifying modern slavery at a facility level, whilst 
macro-level collaborations enable the same at a regional or national level. 
In both domains, collaborations to secure resources and capabilities 
emerge at these two levels. In the contracts-focused domain, collabo -
rations emerge to enhance the efficiency of compliance mechanisms, 
such as audits. In the conditions-focused domain, the focus was on 
mobilizing communities to identify modern slavery (see Table 5 ). Cross 
boundary collaboration is also possible, as we explore in Section 4.3 .
Collaborations engaged in by each actor depends on the modern 
slavery posture. For example, audits performed at individual facilities 
could be used for multiple purposes – an activity typical for the 
contracts-focused domain. This is a focus of so-called audit platforms – 
data collection and exchange mechanisms, which are developed to 
enable an exchange of insights gained through an audit at one facility to 
inform further insights for various supply chain actors, who use the same 
facility. If actors collaborate across the micro- and macro-levels, audit 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
8 

--- PAGE 9 ---
results and other data can be shared to explicitly serve the interests of 
multiple actors. This means that audit requirements can reflect the needs 
of multiple actors; an integrated audit can therefore cover areas that 
would normally require multiple audits, thus contributing to audit 
optimization. The connection between the modern slavery posture, se -
lection of a collaborator, and choice of monitoring technology is high -
lighted by the following quote: 
“So, where we’ve partnered with people, like [software platform], 
….. They had a very similar mindset to us. We set up us originally 
because we recognized that there were so many different platforms, 
so many different certifications, everything like that. And then sup -
pliers are just exhausted because they’re having to answer every -
thing separately, I mean that’s a full-time job for a few people.” MS12
The collaborations in the conditions-focused domain tend to involve 
multiple actors who collaborate for a ‘greater good’. These collabora -
tions, which underscore mutual dependencies in building capacity and 
social capital in service of the larger goal of identifying modern slavery, 
can also occur at both the micro- and macro-levels. At a micro-level, 
these collaborations aim to interlink local and other actors. To provide 
one example that was raised serveral times in our interviews, an NGO 
may work with local communities to gain on-the-ground insights on the 
labour conditions of workers. At a macro-level, the actors collaborate to 
identify modern slavery in a particular location, but also work together 
to collect insights across regions and identify hotspots of modern 
slavery. If hotspots are identified in a particular area, the insights can be 
used for local actors to follow-up and investigate. Importantly, these 
insights are rarely developed by any one actor on their own, further 
underscoring mutual dependencies. 
“The technology has enabled not only to facilitate expedited opera -
tion of the hotline, but also [to] connect the resources through these 
different platforms of Salesforce and volunteers and do this heat 
map, where the situation and geospatial location, etc., […] We 
analyze all these different sorts of information that we’re gathering 
from the interaction with survivors of trafficking to sort of identify 
certain trends, when [the] same addresses and information about 
trafficking comes [up] over and over so, then we can eventually 
develop customized packages for law enforcement about information 
about traffickers, never about victims because [of] confidentiality.” 
MS11
The collaborations across micro- and macro-levels enable exchange 
of insights and data for mutual benefit. Technology can enable the ex -
change of insights (such as data or results of analytics). Whilst the free 
flow of data is essential for collaborations, the flow of data is often 
difficult to achieve. To start with, standardization of data collection is 
critical, and this will be based on the need to coordinate and collaborate 
with many actors. Many respondents explained that the lack of data 
format standards and standardized data collection processes hampered 
effective data exchange between actors: 
“So one of the kind of main criticisms of the social audit world is lack 
of standardization in the questions that are being asked and the data 
that’s being collected. […] It’s really, really hard then to kind of 
amalgamate that data together and make comparisons if everybody’s 
looking at different things at different times …” MS6
In part, the exchange of data is influenced by a willingness of indi -
vidual actors to collaborate. This willingness is often grounded in the 
trust, or lack thereof, between potential collaborators. For example, 
complicated agreements over who owns the data may prevent collabo -
ration. An illustration is whether service providers of worker voice 
technologies (WVT) own the collected data. Depending on any partic -
ular agreement, they may collaborate on projects where they are in 
control of the data or outsource their technology to actors who own (yet 
not further share) the data.
Other monitoring technological solutions may have fewer pro -
prietary restrictions. For example, satellites are increasingly being used 
to monitor large geographic areas (e.g., forests, shrimp farms, food 
processing facilities). While not necessarily definitive, this type of data 
can highlight potential risks requiring further investigation, mindful of 
the cost of acquiring this data. The benefit of using it is that local actors 
could be alerted to verify any concerns, as the following explains: 
“We have a couple of projects where we’re looking at using satellite 
imagery of monitoring forests. […] There’s some kind of the satellite 
spots deforestation, a quick survey goes out to a group of, you know, 
at local community members asking them, hey, what’s going on? Can 
you find out? That kind of triangulation of data I think is kind of the 
future of integrating these technologies together because if we’re all 
collecting information in silos and not sharing, we’re not really 
leveraging.” MS7
Technology can also enable firms to push data collection deep into 
their supply chains, including well beyond the first tier. This requires 
technological interoperability, but it also requires trust throughout the 
chain on how the data will be collected and used, particularly given the 
sensitivities around an issue like modern slavery. Financial and infor -
mational resources must thus be supported by trust, legitimacy, and an 
understanding of local contexts. In cases where trust-building is at an 
early stage, monitoring technology can enable anonymous reporting, 
which could compromise identification of issues at the micro-level, but 
might enable improved analytics at the macro-level – as illustrated by 
the following quote: 
“So it’s the lower tiers where most of the risk is because the funding 
and the work isn’t getting down that far. But if I was a tier one 
supplier and I don’t want to be cut out with the supply chain, how do 
I share that information with my brands at all? I think that allowing 
anonymous reporting is important so that you can at least find the 
risks and then figure out where to go for those suppliers that are 
particularly edgy about working with the suppliers to capacity 
building […] But then letting the suppliers have hold of that data, 
you know in our system if it’s multi tier. The tier one supplier gets to 
crunch all of the data and run analytics on their suppliers, and it 
trickles down the chain. They can look at what’s going on with the 
Table 5 
Collaborations for identifying modern slavery.
Contracts-focused domain Conditions-focused domain
Micro-level 
collaborations
Collaborations to enable 
audits at facilities
Collaborations to interlink 
local communities and 
workers
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
compliance against a standard
PRIMARY FOCUS: To mobilize 
(and give voice to) local 
communities to assist in 
revealing modern slavery
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Monitoring technologies 
enable data collection for 
auditing purposes (e.g., 
sensors)
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Monitoring technologies 
enable data collection from 
underrepresented 
communities (e.g., worker 
voice technologies)
Macro-level 
collaborations
Collaborations to enable 
supply chain audits
Collaborations to interlink 
local communities across 
regions and countries
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
efficiencies in supplier 
auditing confirming the 
absence of modern slavery
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
effectiveness of community 
mobilization in sharing 
insights across the region or 
country to assist in 
identification of modern 
slavery
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Firms can enhance data 
collection with data exchange 
technologies (e.g., cloud- 
based applications)
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Firms can use macro level data 
and analytics for identifying 
hot spots (e.g., satellites)
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
9 

--- PAGE 10 ---
people they’re working with and set corrective actions and help to 
improve things. So, I think it’s more about having agency and 
ownership of projects to enable suppliers to feel confident in 
participating.” MS12
Data collection is ultimately underpinned by trust and is only as 
effective if it is transparent and empowers workers to safely share their 
views. In the absence of such conditions, workers may not participate or 
may provide biased feedback, thus undermining efforts to identify 
modern slavery. 
“If you’re collecting people’s data and you are collecting very sen -
sitive information about the labour conditions, you’re asking them to 
make complaints or you are recording grievances that they’ve raised, 
if that information gets into the wrong hands, gets into the hands of 
the very people that are abusing these people or you know, gets into 
the wrong hands in any other way, that can then create a risk for that 
person, and this is one of, this is one of the kind of big reasons why 
some worker voice apps really struggled to, to take off because 
workers are nervous to, to use them […] That risk may even be 
further perpetuated if you’re talking about ethnic minorities, 
migrant workers, or even kind of illegal migrants, who don’t want to 
be identified …” MS6
Without confidence their data is protected, workers may not report 
on issues such as if they are regularly paid on-time, if they paid a 
recruitment fee, or if they retain access to their personal identification 
documents.
4.3. Cross-boundary interactions
Notwithstanding the distinctions between the domains, the con -
tracts- and conditions-focused domains are neither disconnected nor 
operate in isolation. The domains are co-existing, and both can 
contribute to identifying modern slavery in supply chains over time. We 
found several indications that collaborations emerge across these 
seemingly separate domains, particularly when the collaborations 
emphasize identifying modern slavery, rather than focusing on 
achieving aims congruent with their domains (e.g., legitimization of 
modern slavery initiatives through auditing and certification as 
observed in the contracts-focused domain).
We found evidence that cross-boundary interactions can leverage 
domain-specific resources and provide unique opportunities for collab -
orations for actors from each domain. For example, for firms a collab -
oration with NGOs or other actors from the conditions-domain can lead 
to increased effectiveness of audits – arguably leading to increased 
legitimacy. Facility audits are good examples of such collaboration as 
they can have serious limitations. In many cases, audits are limited to 
the grounds or specific activities of a facility (typical in a contracts- 
focused approach), but may benefit from exploring linkages to 
external resources held by the broader community and seek insights 
from multiple sources of data (typical in a conditions-focused approach). 
Facility audits are usually announced well in advance, meaning a facility 
manager can ‘set’ the scene. If the managers/owners purposefully 
conceal evidence, it could be extremely difficult for an auditor to 
identify modern slavery. For example: 
“We found by very, very conservative estimates that a third of 
migrant workers were enforced labour. Whereas we found that au -
dits found that less than 1 % of workers were forced labour. I think 
that the difference there is once audits are on site; they’re pre- 
announced, there may be worker coaching.” MS26
These are serious vulnerabilities, but the effectiveness of audits im -
proves through collaboration with actors having expertise and resources 
within the conditions-focused domain. Such actors (e.g., local NGOs or 
communities) may not necessarily be aware of the specific compliance 
mechanisms an auditor follows. However, they can provide broader 
insights into the working conditions at a facility that can inform an 
auditor about ‘hidden’ problems. Such collaborations provide access to 
critical resources, such as ‘informal’ channels and first-hand data, that is 
typically difficult to obtain. They also highlight the unique resources 
different actors possess and the mutual dependencies in high veracity 
audits.
Boundary spanning activities can help an auditor to focus on matters 
that are important, but not necessarily directly observable. However, 
boundary spanning activities require a clear mandate and resources 
from a firm or the auditing organization to enable auditors to engage in 
them. We found that some firms engage in these activities, yet there are 
still several conditions, such as the modern slavery posture of the firm 
and the experience of the auditor. As one interviewee explained: 
“Experienced auditors are typically OK. They will check the back -
ground, we will get the information from the previous audit or what 
is happening, a Google search in the area, see if there is any issue 
with that particular facility, then he will go in. [An] inexperienced 
auditor will jump into the facility [unprepared] and he will say that 
‘everything is okay’.” MS18
Cross-boundary interactions, however, must be supported by a 
greater range of resources than activities confined to one domain alone. 
For example, auditors conducting a boundary-spanning audit will 
require a wider set of skills, knowledge, and experience to gather, 
analyze, and interpret the broader types of evidence provided in each 
domain. Gathering boundary-spanning evidence will, in turn, require 
increased financing to support the broader scope of activities, access to 
people in a wider range of contexts (e.g., facilities, communities), and 
the legitimacy that enables such access. Finding auditors with the ability 
to conduct boundary spanning audits can be challenging, however, and 
points to the need for new forms of auditor training. As one expert 
remarked: 
“There are social compliance auditors out there and they’re trained 
to look for social non-compliance. But a lot of the auditors who are 
out there might have a technical background. […] They can see if 
there’s live wires or slippery falls and things like that. That’s phys -
ical; that’s tangible; but forced labour indicators are non-tangible. 
They find it incredibly hard to detect and the interview techniques 
that you need to use to detect these things when you go out and 
actually speak with management and workers are so different from 
what they’re used to. […] Building capacity [is] a really long and 
slow process and incredibly frustrating.” MS25
We also found examples of firms operating in both domains. For 
example, a large seafood firm engaged in a contracts-focused approach 
through social compliance auditing, but also hired local NGOs to 
investigate labour hiring practices and observe the well-being of 
workers (especially migrant workers), indicating a conditions-focused 
approach. Sharing the results from one approach potentially benefits 
the other. Other actors, such as NGOs, can operate in either domain, but 
can also explicitly focus on facilitating knowledge transfer from one 
domain to another.
Collaborating across boundaries also has ramifications for how ac -
tors leverage monitoring technologies to improve the likelihood of 
identifying modern slavery. Here, data analytics provides great promise 
in identifying modern slavery, though its use in that context remains in 
the early stages. For data analytics to work well, however, it depends on 
the data collection and data exchange and their integration into the data 
analytics process. Data analytics is not only about crunching data; it is 
about using and exchanging the results between actors to facilitate the 
flow of information. This underscores the importance of aligning ac -
tivities across collaborators and domains. As one respondent asserted: 
“Technology has a role to play, but for us is more like how you 
implement flows of information with workers and about the workers 
both ways. So then, it’s about transparency […] but you first need to 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
10 

--- PAGE 11 ---
create that environment where flows of information come and go for 
them all the time.” MS11
As part of this process with clear mutual dependencies, boundary 
spanning activities play an important role. For example, in the context of 
WVT, collecting the data outside of the workplace, such as with the help 
of a trusted local NGO, illustrates how collaboration among diverse 
actors can improve the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. 
Building a database can then provide a basis for a data analytics program 
to indicate potential hotspots. As one respondent explained, 
“[A platform] doesn’t give you a definitive “this person is in modern 
slavery” but rather it presents you with, okay, these are the various 
risk factors here. […] This person doesn’t have access to their ID 
documents. They weren’t paid on time last month. They did pay a 
recruitment fee to get this job and then you’re able to build up a bit of 
a picture and you as an auditor or a frontline responder can say, hey, 
I think there might be a modern slavery situation here.” MS6
The analytics are only as good as the input data, and collaboration is 
therefore a key enabler of data analytics. Actors collaborate to secure 
access to valuable resources, whether they are technological or admin -
istrative, to identify modern slavery. Critically, as the evidence 
demonstrated, these resources can be held by different actors from both 
domains. Technology providers, for example, may either hold or can 
facilitate access to key worker response data. However, it may only be 
possible to collect this data by drawing on the resources of other critical 
actors, such as contextually embedded NGOs holding local knowledge, 
access, and trust. Data collection, data exchange, and data analytics are 
therefore all grounded in mutual dependencies requiring good-faith 
collaborations focused on aligning key activities.
4.4. Contextual embeddedness
Context is also important for identifying modern slavery as different 
approaches will be more applicable in different situations. One partici -
pant went so far as to suggest that identifying modern slavery in practice 
means “you’re trying to figure it out on a case by case basis” (MS27), 
while another noted that you must put what you know “within the 
context of that universe” (MS23). Recognizing the context is critical and 
a failure to do so hampers the ability to identify modern slavery. For 
example, an often-cited example focused on auditor skills as one 
participant explained: 
"It’s been quite interesting to see the difference in approach and 
sometimes the auditors are lacking that nuance and really kind of the 
reality of context on the ground to put some of the information to 
analyze it against that." MS7
Resource access is one of the keys to tailoring approaches to identify 
modern slavery to the specific context of any one supply chain. Resource 
access is often underpinned through collaborations. For example, one 
key resource is physical access to local environments. Physical access 
must also be supported by the resources needed to identify modern 
slavery once on-site, such as language skills, perceptions of legitimacy, 
and technology. As our collected evidence made clear, understanding 
the context (in a facility or, more broadly, in a geographical location) 
assists collaborating actors in developing their strategies for identifying 
modern slavery. The following quote illustrates the importance of con -
textually embedded NGOs in providing access to resources required in 
many contexts, such as local translators and, more importantly, local 
networks and worker trust: 
“You know what we draw NGOs for? We draw on them for an advice 
that is localized in the different regions we work and who to align 
with if we have a case to remediate or there is a victim. So really 
leaned on people who have some expertise on the ground where we 
source from through our supply chain, who understand the real is -
sues in our supply chain.” MS15
Building on the point above, the need to understand the cultural and 
linguistic context of the workers was repeatedly emphasized. Collabo -
rations are critical in providing an understanding of the needed context. 
One expert explained the potential roles of NGOs in doing so: 
“One is that for solving a problem you need to understand the 
problem, so if you need to create a works and providing the infor -
mation doing research on understanding the context, so what is not 
working, why is not working is the first step so certainly NGOs could 
play a pivotal role on that providing background context and per -
spectives.” MS14
Understanding the broader community context in which modern 
slavery occurs is also essential. Auditors can reach out to local com -
munities (i.e., not only the workers themselves) with the help of local 
NGOs. This can be for the purpose of connecting with the broader 
community, but also for providing an additional layer of safety for the 
auditor. Improved safety, for example, could potentially be enabled 
through wearable technologies, such as having an on-the-ground com -
munity actor monitoring the location of the auditor while they were on- 
site. One participant explained the importance of connecting to the 
broader community: 
“I think, which has also been innovative, is really attempting to the 
extent possible to interview workers in their communities rather 
than at their workplaces or in areas outside of their workplaces. So 
you know, on Sundays workers that work six days a week, they might 
go to the market for a couple of hours, so we are able to interview 
them there, sort of offsite at worker housing.” MS26
Contextual embeddedness also means matching the monitoring 
technologies with the environment. Sophisticated technologies are not 
necessarily needed; basic technologies (such as mobile phones, cameras, 
or hotlines) can also be effective and appropriate in different situations. 
Technological solutions often need to be agile and suitable for the low- 
technology environments in which modern slavery often flourishes. 
Moreover, sophisticated and basic monitoring technologies can be used 
together to increase the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. This is 
illustrated in the following quote: 
“So, in certain factories, workers have high levels of literacy and 
access to smartphones, an app-based, text-based grievance mecha -
nism might work great […] In the coffee sector with funding from 
[redacted] on a needs assessment [we] found that the vast majority 
of workers didn’t have a smartphone, didn’t have Internet access, 
very low levels of the literacy, [and were] non-Spanish speakers. In 
that case, we actually determined that the lowest tech solution was 
the most appropriate that workers prefer. We also asked about their 
preferences, they preferred face to face interaction. Telephone calls 
also played apart and community radio and announcements, for 
example, but realizing that context, a high tech solution really wasn’t 
going to be appropriate to workers needs and technology access.” 
MS26
Any approach to identifying modern slavery must be mindful of the 
potential adverse effects in different contexts. One risk in some envi -
ronments is that there can be a dark side to technology. For example, 
some interviewees noted that the technology might be used to exert 
control over workers. There are also many challenges in implementing 
technologies in practice, such as ensuring poor data are not codified, 
interoperability, data security, and the high cost of mobile data, to name 
just a few of the illustrations provided by respondents. These challenges 
can vary between supply chains, so it is important to be mindful of 
unique situational contingencies. Yet, all of the experts also agreed that 
monitoring technologies can play an important role in the process of 
identifying modern slavery if it is leveraged through collaborations be -
tween key actors in the system.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
11 

--- PAGE 12 ---
5. Discussion
Our study provides several contributions, including further evidence 
on the existence of the contracts- and conditions-focused domains, as 
well as extending understanding of those domains with evidence of 
micro- and macro-levels of collaborations and boundary spanning col -
laborations. Importantly, our study also identified four key contin -
gencies facilitating or inhibiting the identification of modern slavery by 
leveraging monitoring technologies through collaborations. In this sec -
tion, we discuss a conceptual framework grounded in our analysis and 
discuss the contribution of our work to the literature.
5.1. Conceptual framework
Our findings provide the foundation for developing a conceptual 
framework for leveraging technology through collaboration to identify 
modern slavery ( Fig. 1 ). Our framework explains how multi-actor col -
laborations can leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern 
slavery – facilitated (or inhibited) by four key contingencies (i.e., 
modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary in -
teractions, and contextual embeddedness).
As shown in Fig. 1 , the framework recognizes the contracts-focused 
and conditions-focused domains. In the contracts-focused domain, 
multiple actors develop collaborations and exchange resources to 
further their strategic goal of confirming the absence of modern slavery. 
The collaborations and resources required to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery are based in the modern slavery posture of the actors. 
The collaboration scope can, therefore, vary from one supply chain to 
another, potentially addressing collaborations at the micro- and macro- 
levels. Grounded in RDT, these collaborations will be focused on 
ensuring the necessary resources are available to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery. In other words, the actors seek collaborations that 
address resource needs congruent with their strategic goals. As actors ’ 
motivation to identify modern slavery increases, collaborations have the 
potential to broaden in scope at the micro- and macro-levels to ensure 
that the needed resources are available to address those needs. This 
exchange of resources includes technological solutions, such as worker 
voice technologies, hotlines, or exchange of data through auditing 
platforms. The contracts-focused domain, therefore, demonstrates the 
linkage between modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, and effi -
ciently leveraging monitoring technologies through collaboration to 
confirm the absence of modern slavery in a supply chain.
The conditions-focused domain has the strategic goal of confirming 
the presence (where it exists) of modern slavery. This domain also 
originates from modern slavery posture, which is grounded in an actor ’ s 
purposeful decision to explicitly identify modern slavery. Recognizing 
modern slavery posture as a starting point for both domains underscores 
the potential for cross-boundary interactions. The framework, therefore, 
recognizes that the contracts- and conditions-focused domains are co- 
existing and can both contribute to identifying modern slavery. The 
framework also recognizes that collaborations can bring mutually 
dependent resources (such as trusted local informants) to bear through 
both domains, as well as across the micro- and macro-levels. Moreover, 
the conditions-focused domain requires that cross-boundary collabora -
tion is tailored to the unique supply chain context. Identifying the 
presence of modern slavery, particularly in cases where it is concealed, 
requires an approach specifically applicable to the context of the unique 
circumstances of that supply chain. These tailored approaches can 
include monitoring technologies leveraged through multi-actor collab -
oration. Starting from modern slavery posture, this domain therefore 
demonstrates the linkage between cross-boundary interactions, 
contextual embeddedness and effectively leveraging monitoring tech -
nologies through collaboration to confirm the presence of modern 
slavery (where it exists) in supply chains.
5.2. Contributions to the literature and theory
Our study supports the literature showing that collaborations are 
driven by a pursuit of strategic goals through recognizing and devel -
oping mutual dependencies (e.g., Berkowitz et al., 2020 ; Kretschmer 
et al., 2022 ). In the modern slavery literature, this pursuit is commen -
surate with identifying modern slavery in the contracts-focused and 
conditions-focused domains ( Simpson et al., 2021 ), with the former 
associated with confirming the absence of modern slavery, and the latter 
associated with confirming the presence of modern slavery. Our study 
also shows that RDT is a valuable outcomes focused approach (see Oli -
veira et al., 2022 ), which helps to explain the advantage provided by 
collaboration among different key actors to identify modern slavery. 
Technology adoption in collaborations is also influenced by the strategic 
goals of collaborating actors. Consequently, collaborations based around 
technologies can advance positive outcomes, such as increased veracity 
and timeliness of monitoring activities in supply chains ( Castka et al., 
2020 ; Reid and Castka, 2023 ), but also potentially lead to concealment 
and legitimization of illegal or unethical activities, such as increased 
control over the workforce ( Mol, 2010 ). While previous studies have 
alluded to some aspects of collaboration in the context of modern 
slavery ( Gold et al., 2015 ) or investigated the adoption of technological 
solutions in this context ( Marques et al., 2024 ), this research widens our 
understanding about strategic actions of actors through collaborations, 
with a specific focus on monitoring technologies (see Table 6 ).
At a more nuanced level, we expand the literature by demonstrating 
how four key contingencies (i.e., modern slavery posture, collaboration 
scope, cross-boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness) 
facilitate (or inhibit) leveraging monitoring technologies embedded in 
collaborations. First, our evidence reveals that the posture taken by 
different actors will shape why collaborations occur and the type of 
Fig. 1. Conceptual framework for leveraging monitoring technology through collaboration to identify modern slavery.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
12 

--- PAGE 13 ---
technologies most likely to be adopted. The desire to either show the 
absence (contracts-focused domain) or presence (conditions-focused 
domain) of modern slavery in supply chains is an important contingency 
in the nature of multi-actor collaborations. Specifically, our study shows 
that different actors will engage in collaborations for the purpose of 
acquiring different valued or needed resources to satisfy either domain. 
In turn, this will influence actors’ assessment, and subsequent use, of 
different monitoring technologies.
Second, there are implications for the scope of collaborations and 
whether this occurs at the micro- or macro-level. While both are 
important, the former focuses on the facility level with the latter 
addressing the regional and/or national levels. As monitoring technol -
ogies are resource intensive (i.e., satellite imagery and its analytics is not 
a core competence of many actors) and not central to many firms’ raison 
d’etre (i.e., monitoring of working conditions is not a primary focus of 
labour intensive supply chains unlike, for instance, quality management 
and focus on efficiency of supply chain operations), actors seek collab -
orations to gain benefits from technologically driven solutions across 
both levels. While the pursuit of increased collaboration scope is often 
driven by the intrinsic motivation of different actors, it is notable that 
actors holding unique competencies at the micro- and/or macro-level 
play increasingly important roles in identifying modern slavery. Argu -
ably, the extended scope of collaborations is driven by competencies 
that are enhanced by technologies. It may be argued that prior to the 
digitalization of processes in supply chain audits and the more ascendant 
role played by big data and AI analytics, there was comparatively less 
reason to develop such collaborations.
Further, our research supports earlier studies ( Fawcett et al., 2008 ; 
Sodhi et al., 2022 ; Marques et al., 2024 ) arguing that social capital, such 
as trust and willingness to collaborate, are essential to applying tech -
nologies in a supply chain context, in our case to identify modern 
slavery. However, we also demonstrate that actors develop social capital 
to advance their organization centric benefits (contracts-focused 
domain), but also for a ‘greater good’ (conditions-focused domain). Our 
theoretical contribution here is to show that RDT can be usefully 
adopted to focus on other motivations of actors besides financial per -
formance (or firm survival). Such mutual dependencies can also help 
fulfil societal norms and expectations around the identification of 
modern slavery in global supply chains. We contend that RDT is a useful 
line of inquiry in modern slavery and supply chain research; it offers 
scholars a different explanatory framework in addition to theory more 
commonly used such as institutional theory and global value chain 
theory ( Strand et al., 2024 , p. 6).
Third, as actors explore more ambitious goals through developing 
cross-boundary interactions (such as data exchange and its multipurpose 
utilization), long term relationships, along with trust and enhanced ca -
pabilities, become a more central focus in collaborations. Such de -
velopments can further leverage the potential of technologies for data 
collection, exchange, and analytics. Our argument, and consistent with 
RDT, is that engagement with each of these features (i.e., data collection, 
exchange, and analytics) will depend on what purposes they individu -
ally and collectively serve in meeting different actors’ resource needs.
Fourth, the need to acquire and manage important resource de -
pendencies also enables collaborations of actors from contrasting do -
mains, as well as facilitates contextual embeddedness. The extant 
literature often identifies contrasting domains, such as symbolic versus 
substantial domains mentioned earlier ( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), but rarely 
theorizes how the contrasting domains interact. We demonstrate that 
resource dependencies allow for collaborations across domains but must 
remain mindful of different settings. This argument urges some caution 
in assuming that the identification of modern slavery through moni -
toring technology in multi-actor collaborations will be the same across 
different contexts. The success or otherwise will depend on aligning 
suitable monitoring technologies to the specific environment, the needs 
of different actors including their modern slavery posture, as well as the 
scope of the collaboration.
Table 6 
Summary of findings.
Contingencies
Modern slavery posture Collaboration Scope Cross Boundary Interactions Contextual Embeddedness
Use of 
technologies
Selected technologies reflect the modern slavery posture (i.e., technologies 
in the contracts-focused domain are intended to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery, while technologies in the conditions-focused domain are 
intended to identify it).
Increased scope of collaboration broadens the use of 
technologies – characterized by a shift from predominant 
use of technologies for data collection to data exchange and 
analysis
Cross boundary interactions can 
facilitate a shift in the use of 
technologies to serve different ends
Contextual embeddedness facilitates 
the veracity in the use of technologies, 
primarily for data collection
Resource 
dependencies
Securing needed resources to establish and/or maintain capabilities 
aligned within the modern slavery posture
Securing needed resources to develop capabilities within 
the modern slavery posture
Securing needed resources to 
repurpose the modern slavery 
posture
Securing needed resources to deepen 
capabilities
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
13 

--- PAGE 14 ---
Previous studies have demonstrated that actors tend to focus on 
developing collaborations that assist them in advancing their strategic 
goals ( Shiu et al., 2023 ); for example by developing dyadic relationships 
with individual actors such as certifiers ( Castka et al., 2015 ). Organi -
zations operating in such institutional environments thus primarily seek 
to maintain their autonomy ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). In the context of 
modern slavery, the autonomy is, in part, preserved by membership in a 
particular institutional domain (i.e., contracts-focused domain). Our 
study has extended understanding of the contracts-focused and 
conditions-focused domains (i.e. Simpson et al., 2021 ), establishing the 
conditions under which actors are more likely to leverage monitoring 
technologies and develop mutual dependencies commensurate with 
relevant strategic goals. We also identified micro- and macro-levels of 
collaboration as well as collaborations within and between the domains 
(see Table 5 ).
The common perspective of RDT is to focus on the performance of the 
dependent (focal) organization, as earlier reviews and meta-analyses 
have widely observed ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ; Hillman et al., 2009 ; 
Ozturk, 2021 ). Our study of collaboration and technology extends the 
focus of RDT to a multi-actor context, while providing theoretical con -
tributions to the mutual dependence perspective of RDT. RDT’s mutual 
dependence perspective has often been used in contexts where “firm 
autonomy (fear of dependency) is no longer the key goal of firms in 
acquiring external resources” ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). Meta-organizations or 
other forms of decentralized multi-actor networks tend to focus on 
persuasion to commit others to exchange resources rather than using 
power ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). Few actors alone are unlikely to possess all of 
the resources needed to identify modern slavery, demonstrating the 
need to acquire important resources held by others ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 
1978 ).
5.3. Practical implications
This study provides implications for a range of actor groups such as 
managers at firms, as well as for auditors, other service providers (i.e., 
organizations providing audit platforms), NGOs, and policymakers. For 
example, managers should seek applications of context-appropriate 
technology to identify modern slavery throughout their supply chains, 
noting that success will be contingent on obtaining resources held by a 
wide range of actors. This will require creating connections and transi -
tions across the micro- and macro-levels of collaboration. Moreover, 
collaborations supporting (and supported by) technology could help 
reduce the ‘psychological distance’ of modern slavery. For example, 
psychological distance can be reduced with access to timely, high ve -
racity information that “help bring events of persons perceptually 
‘closer’ to a decision-maker” ( Simpson et al., 2021 ). Worker voice 
technologies, for instance, can enable real-time data on labor conditions 
that help bring the experiences of workers that are typically far removed 
spatially and socially from managers, policymakers, or customers.
Beyond managers, there are many related implications for auditors 
and other service providers. While using monitoring technology is not 
about replacing human auditors, there are many ways it can impact how 
auditors perform their jobs. Auditor training, for example, must reflect 
the greater range of potential sources of evidence provided through 
technological applications ( Castka and Searcy, 2023 ). Moreover, the 
boundary spanning activities across the conditions- and 
contracts-focused domains enabled by collaboration, technology, and 
other resources could provide a key differentiator in the services offered 
by different auditors ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ).
There are also several related implications for other actors, including 
governments and NGOs. Governments, for example, should continue to 
enact legislation focused on modern slavery in supply chains, while 
being mindful that legislation alone will not identify it. Governments 
can take additional action, such as establishing trusted hotlines and 
supporting technological investments (such as through tax incentives) 
intended to identify modern slavery. Different NGOs will clearly have 
different areas of focus and hold different resources, but examples could 
include focusing on enabling local access to communities, standardizing 
data collection protocols, providing trusted platforms for data exchange, 
and developing hotspot identification capabilities. Critically, all actors 
must recognize the challenges of identifying modern slavery working on 
their own, and that this goal is best achieved by explicitly recognizing 
mutual dependencies and actively working with others to build 
collaborations.
5.4. Limitations and future research
Building on RDT, this research illuminated the interdependencies 
between actors and resources through original empirical evidence 
gathered in a modern slavery context. However, our study also had 
limitations, which provides insight into several potential areas for future 
research.
Our study used experts from multiple settings and the results should 
be seen as an aggregated framework of the shared experiences of these 
actors. Our results thus describe the circumstances under which multi- 
actor collaborations typically leverage monitoring technologies to ach -
ieve their strategic goals. The conceptual framework is explicitly pre -
sented as a building block for future work. Additionally, we did not 
attempt to identify any ‘weight’ that should be allocated against each of 
the four key contingencies we identified. Further research on the relative 
importance of different contingencies in different contexts (e.g., in terms 
of sector/region/types of supply chains/types of technologies) would be 
valuable. Locational differences, for example, are an important dimen -
sion that shape resource dependencies in unique ways including, for 
example, rates of corruption, historical or political ties, and the level of 
trade dependence between countries ( Jiang, H. et al., 2023 ). This means 
some variance in both the nature and effectiveness of collaboration 
across modern slavery contexts is likely given different country-specific 
dependencies. Research that explores such nuances will further our 
understanding of this important area.
Our study focused on identifying modern slavery. This, however, is 
only the start of efforts to address modern slavery in supply chains. 
Future research should focus on how modern slavery can be reduced and 
eliminated following its identification. The role of collaboration in 
facilitating the remediation of modern slavery is underexplored. While 
eliminating modern slavery in practice will likely require many key 
actors working together ( McLaren et al., 2024 ), further underlining the 
applicability of RDT’s mutual dependency perspective, it is also likely to 
require a strong understanding of power imbalance in the supply chain. 
Our study did not address the power imbalance perspective of RDT, but 
it could be an additional approach for considering actions to eliminate 
modern slavery. In particular, future studies can explore the circum -
stances under which actors are coerced into particular domain mem -
bership and whether such coercive mechanisms would change the 
dynamics of multi-actor collaboration, i.e., in general or specifically in 
terms of the choice of technologies adopted.
Finally, case studies on real-world applications of monitoring tech -
nologies in a modern slavery context are needed. This could include on- 
the-ground investigations of the benefits and challenges of using tech -
nology in different modern slavery settings. This would also provide 
further opportunity to study the contingencies in leveraging monitoring 
technologies through multi-actor collaboration, as well as an opportu -
nity to study how collaborations evolve over time.
6. Conclusion
One of the reasons modern slavery persists is that it can be very 
difficult to identify in practice. Modern slavery is often embedded deep 
in supply chains far from public scrutiny. This creates a “psychological 
distance” between consumers, people experiencing modern slavery, and 
supply chain managers. Given its illegality in most jurisdictions, the 
prevalence of modern slavery in global supply chains is often actively 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
14 

--- PAGE 15 ---
concealed. Even in cases where modern slavery is actively sought-out, it 
can be difficult to recognize. Technology is increasingly being used in 
supply chain management, and research on the use of technology in a 
modern slavery context is rapidly expanding (i.e., Kougkoulos et al., 
2021 ; Christ and Helliar, 2021 ; Marques et al., 2024 ).
This study explored how multi-actor collaborations can leverage 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery in global supply 
chains. Modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary 
interactions, and contextual embeddedness individually or combined, 
can leverage (or inhibit) the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. 
These contingencies, which explicitly address our research question, 
represent four key contingencies in leveraging monitoring technologies 
through multi-actor collaboration, though their salience and impact can 
vary between supply chains. As demonstrated in an original conceptual 
framework, these themes are interconnected and can leverage moni -
toring technology through multi-actor collaborations to identify modern 
slavery through the contracts-focused and conditions-focused domains. 
While technology is not a panacea, we conclude that it can help identify 
modern slavery if it is supported by collaboration between employers, 
certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and other vested intermediaries 
holding the financing, access, skills, and legitimacy to successfully apply 
it.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Cory Searcy: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, 
Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptu -
alization. Pavel Castka: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original 
draft, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, 
Conceptualization. Grant Michelson: Writing – review & editing, 
Writing – original draft, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, 
Data curation, Conceptualization. Xiaoli Zhao: Writing – review & 
editing, Project administration, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data 
curation.
Declaration of competing interest
None.
Acknowledgement
The authors would like to thank Miriam Wilhelm for her comments 
on an earlier version of the paper.
Data availability
The data that has been used is confidential.
References
Bales, K., 2012. Disposable People: New Slavery in the Global Economy. University of 
California Press .
Barratt, M., 2004. Understanding the meaning of collaboration in the supply chain. 
Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 9, 30–42 .
Benstead, A.V., Hendry, L.C., Stevenson, M., 2018. Horizontal collaboration in response 
to modern slavery legislation: an action research project. Int. J. Oper. Prod. Manag. 
38, 2286–2312 .
Benstead, A.V., Hendry, L.C., Stevenson, M., 2021. Detecting and remediating modern 
slavery in supply chains: a targeted audit approach. Prod. Plann. Control 32, 
1136–1157 .
Berg, L., Farbenblum, B., Kintominas, A., 2020. Addressing exploitation in supply chains: 
is technology a game changer for worker voice? Anti-Traffick. Rev. 14, 47–66 .
Berkowitz, H., Crowder, L.B., Brooks, C.M., 2020. Organizational perspectives on 
sustainable ocean governance: a multi-stakeholder, meta-organization model of 
collective action. Mar. Pol. 118, 104026 .
Caputo, M., Mininno, V., 1996. Internal, vertical and horizontal logistics integration in 
Italian grocery distribution. Int. J. Phys. Distrib. Logist. Manag. 26, 64–90 .
Caruana, R., Crane, A., Gold, S., LeBaron, G., 2020. Modern slavery in business: the sad 
and sorry state of a non-field. Bus. Soc. 60, 251–287 .
Casciaro, T., Piskorski, M.J., 2005. Power imbalance, mutual dependence, and constraint 
absorption: a closer look at resource dependence theory. Adm. Sci. Q. 50, 167–199 .
Castka, P., Prajogo, D., Young, A.C.L., Sohal, A., 2015. Understanding firms’ selection of 
their ISO 9000 third-party certifiers. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 162, 125–133 .
Castka, P., Searcy, C., 2023. Audits and COVID-19: a paradigm shift in the making. Bus. 
Horiz. 66, 5–11 .
Castka, P., Searcy, C., Mohr, J., 2020. Technology-enhanced auditing: improving veracity 
and timeliness in social and environmental audits of supply chains. J. Clean. Prod. 
258, 120773 .
Christ, K.L., Helliar, C., 2021. Blockchain technology and modern slavery: reducing 
deceptive recruitment in migrant worker populations. J. Bus. Res. 131, 112–120 .
Cossio, M., McNeill, W., 2021. Market guide for supplier sustainability applications. 
Gartner Res.
Cousins, P., Dutordoir, M., Lawson, B., Neto, J.Q., Shareholder wealth effects of modern 
slavery regulation. Manag. Sci. 66, 5265-5289. .
Crane, A., 2013. Modern slavery as a management practice: exploring the conditions and 
capabilities for human exploitation. Acad. Manag. Rev. 38, 49–69 .
Crane, A., LeBaron, G., Phung, K., Behbahani, L., Allain, J., 2022. Confronting the 
business models of modern slavery. J. Manag. Inq. 31, 264–285 .
Drees, J.M., Heugens, P.P., 2013. Synthesizing and extending resource dependence 
theory: a meta-analysis. J. Manag. 39, 1666–1698 .
Emberson, C., Pinheiro, S.M., Trautrims, A., 2022. Adaptations to first-tier suppliers’ 
relational anti-slavery capabilities. Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 27, 575–593 .
Fawcett, S.E., Magnan, G.M., McCarter, M.W., 2008. Benefits, barriers, and bridges to 
effective supply chain management. Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 13, 35–48 .
Fransen, L., LeBaron, G., 2019. Big audit firms as regulatory intermediaries in 
transnational labor governance. Regulat. Govern. 13 (2), 260–279 .
Geng, R., Mansouri, S.A., Aktas, E., 2017. The relationship between green supply chain 
management and performance: a meta-analysis of empirical evidences in Asian 
emerging economies. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 183, 245–258 .
Gold, S., Trautrims, A., Trodd, Z., 2015. Modern slavery challenges to supply chain 
management. Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 20, 485–494 .
Gulati, R., Sytch, M., 2007. Dependence asymmetry and joint dependence in 
interorganizational relationships: effects of embeddedness on a manufacturer’s 
performance in procurement relationships. Adm. Sci. Q. 52, 32–69 .
Gutierrez-Huerter, O.G., Gold, S., Trautrims, A., 2023. Change in rhetoric but not in 
action? Framing of the ethical issue of modern slavery in a UK sector at high risk of 
labor exploitation. J. Bus. Ethics 182, 35–58 .
Hayes, R., Pisano, G., Upton, D., Wheelwright, S., 2005. Operations, strategy, and 
technology. Pursuing the Competitive Edge. Wiley, NJ . 
Herding, W., Fischer, S., 2015. Smart data: an exploration of technology innovations for 
sustainability standards systems. ISEAL Alliance. London . 
Hillman, A.J., Withers, M.C., Collins, B.J., 2009. Resource dependence theory: a review. 
J. Manag. 35, 1404–1427 .
Huxham, C., Vangen, S., 2000. Leadership in the shaping and implementation of 
collaboration agendas: how things happen in a (not quite) joined-up world. Acad. 
Manag. J. 43 (6), 1159–1175 .
ILO, 2022. Global Estimates of Modern Slavery: Forced Labour and Forced Marriage. 
International Labour Organization, Geneva . 
Islam, M.A., Van Staden, C.J., 2022. Modern slavery disclosure regulation and global 
supply chains: insights from stakeholder narratives on the UK modern slavery act. 
J. Bus. Ethics 180, 455–479 .
Jiang, H., Luo, Y., Xia, J., Hitt, M., Shen, J., 2023. Resource dependence theory in 
international business: progress and prospects. Glob. Strateg. J. 13, 3–57 .
Jiang, M., Chen, L., Blome, C., Jia, F., 2023. Digital technology adoption for modern 
slavery risk mitigation in supply chains: an institutional perspective. Technol. 
Forecast. Soc. Change 192, 122595 .
Kach, A.P., Bhakoo, V., McGaughey, F., Boersma, M., Nolan, J., Marshall Lichtman, S., 
2025. Humanizing supply chains: turning the spotlight towards remediation in 
modern slavery scholarship. J. Purch. Supply Manag. 31 (1), 100991 .
Kougkoulos, I., Cakir, M.S., Kunz, N., Boyd, D.S., Trautrims, A., Hatzinikolaou, K., 
Gold, S., 2021. A multi-method approach to prioritize locations of labor exploitation 
for ground-based interventions. Prod. Oper. Manag. 30 (12), 4396–4411 .
Kraft, T., Zheng, Y., 2021. How supply chain transparency boosts business value. MIT 
Sloan Manag. Rev. 63, 34–40 .
Kretschmer, T., Leiponen, A., Schilling, M., Vasudeva, G., 2022. Platform ecosystems as 
meta-organizations: implications for platform strategies. Strateg. Manag. J. 43, 
405–424 .
Land, M.K., Barry, J., 2021. Technology and economic and social rights. Oxford 
Handbook of Economic and Social Rights. Oxford University Press, UK . 
LeBaron, G., 2021. The role of supply chains in the global business of forced labour. 
J. Supply Chain Manag. 57, 29–42 .
Locke, R.M., 2013. The Promise and Limits of Private Power: Promoting Labor Standards 
in a Global Economy. Cambridge University Press, UK . 
Marques, L., Morais, D., Terra, A., 2024. More than meets the eye: misconduct and 
decoupling against blockchain for supply chain transparency. Prod. Oper. Manag. 34 
(5), 1057–1075 .
McLaren, E., Salampasis, D., Busulwa, R., Baldegger, R.J., Wild, P., 2024. Key 
stakeholders and their roles in modern slavery monitoring, detection and disclosure: 
a systematic literature review. Sustain. Account. Manag. Policy J. 15, 1310–1337 .
McGrath, P., McCarthy, L., Marshall, D., Rehme, J., 2021. Tools and technologies of 
transparency in sustainable global supply chains. Calif. Manag. Rev. 64, 67–89 .
Meehan, J., Pinnington, B.D., 2021. Modern slavery in supply chains: insights through 
strategic ambiguity. Int. J. Oper. Prod. Manag. 41, 77–101 .
Meyer, J.W., Rowan, B., 1977. Institutionalized organizations: formal structure as myth 
and ceremony. Am. J. Sociol. 83, 340–363 .
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
15 

--- PAGE 16 ---
Michelson, G., Wray-Bliss, E., 2024. Overcoming evil with good: the role of NGOs in 
combating modern slavery. In: Krambia Kapardis, M., Clark, C., Warria, A., Dion, M. 
(Eds.), The Palgrave Handbook on Modern Slavery, pp. 663 – 677 .
Mol, A.P., 2010. The future of transparency: power, pitfalls and promises. Glob. Environ. 
Polit. 10, 132 – 143 .
Mosch, P., Schweikl, S., Obermaier, R., 2021. Trapped in the supply chain? Digital 
servitization strategies and power relations in the case of an industrial technology 
supplier. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 236, 108141 .
Moussa, T., Allam, A., Elmarzouky, M., 2022. Global modern slavery and sustainable 
development goals: does institutional environment quality matter? Bus. Strat. 
Environ. 31, 2230 – 2244 .
Murray, A., Kuban, S., Josefy, M., Anderson, J., 2021. Contracting in the smart era: the 
implications of blockchain and decentralized autonomous organizations for 
contracting and corporate governance. Acad. Manag. Perspect. 35, 622 – 641 .
New, S.J., 2015. Modern slavery and the supply chain: the limits of corporate social 
responsibility? Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 20, 697 – 707 .
Nidumolu, R., Ellison, J., Whalen, J., Billman, E., 2014. The collaboration imperative. 
Harv. Bus. Rev. 92, 76 – 84 .
Nolan, J., Bott, G., 2018. Global supply chains and human rights: spotlight on forced 
labour and modern slavery practices. Aust. J. Hum. Right 24, 44 – 69 .
Nunes, M.F., 2018. Supply chain contamination: an exploratory approach on the 
collateral effects of negative corporate events. Eur. Manag. J. 36, 573 – 587 .
Oliveira, F., Kakabadse, N., Khan, N., 2022. Board engagement with digital technologies: 
a resource dependence framework. J. Bus. Res. 139, 804 – 818 .
Ozturk, O., 2021. Bibliometric review of resource dependence theory literature: an 
overview. Manag. Rev. Quart. 71, 525 – 552 .
Pannekoek, F., Breugewm, T., Van Wassenhove, L.N., 2023. How Tony ’ s chocolonely 
created a purpose-driven (and profitable) supply chain. Harv. Bus. Rev. (online 
article, 11 September) . 
Pfeffer, J., Salancik, G., 1978. The External Control of Organizations: A Resource 
Dependence Perspective. Harper & Row, NY . 
Prajogo, D., Castka, P., Searcy, C., 2021. Paymasters and assurance providers: exploring 
firms ’ discrection in selecting non-financial auditors. J. Bus. Ethics 173, 795 – 811 .
Raineri, L., Strazzari, F., 2022. Drug smuggling and the stability of fragile states: the 
diverging trajectories of Mali and niger. J. Interv. Statebuilding 16, 222 – 239 .
Raj-Reichert, G., 2020. The powers of a social auditor in a global production network: the 
case of Verit ´e and the exposure of forced labour in the electronics industry. J. Econ. 
Geogr. 20, 653 – 678 .
Reid, J., Castka, P., 2023. The impact of remote sensing on monitoring and reporting - 
the case of conformance systems. J. Clean. Prod. 393, 136331 .
Rockmann, K.W., Vough, H.C., 2024. Using quotes to present claims: practices for the 
writing stages of qualitative research. Organ. Res. Methods 27, 621 – 649 .
Schaper, S., Pollach, I., 2021. Modern slavery statements: from regulation to substantive 
supply chain reporting. J. Clean. Prod. 313, 127872 .
Scott, W.R., Davis, G., 2015. Organizations and Organizing: Rational, Natural and Open 
Systems Perspectives. Routledge, NY . 
Shilling, H.J., Wiedmann, T., Malik, A., 2021. Modern slavery footprints in global supply 
chains. J. Ind. Ecol. 25, 1518 – 1528 .
Shiu, J.-M., Dallas, M.P., Huang, H.-H., 2023. A friend of a friend? Informal authority, 
social capital, and networks in telecommunications standard-setting organizations. 
Technol. Forecast. Soc. Change 189, 122346 .
Simatupang, T.M., Sridharan, R., 2002. The collaborative supply chain. Int. J. Logist. 
Manag. 13, 15 – 30 .
Simpson, D., Segrave, M., Quarshie, A., Kach, A., Handfield, R., Panas, G., Moore, H., 
2021. The role of psychological distance in organizational responses to modern 
slavery risk in supply chains. J. Oper. Manag. 67, 926 – 963 .
Sodhi, M.S., Seyedghorban, Z., Tahernejad, H., Samson, D., 2022. Why emerging supply 
chain technologies initially disappoint: blockchain, IoT, and AI. Prod. Oper. Manag. 
31, 2517 – 2537 .
Solymosi, R., Bowers, K., 2018. The Role of Innovative Data Collection Methods in 
Advancing Criminological Understanding. The Oxford Handbook of Environmental 
Criminology, pp. 210 – 237 .
Stevenson, M., 2022. Hidden in plain sight: the bystander effect and the mobilisation of 
modern slavery whistleblowing. Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 27, 128 – 139 .
Stevenson, M., Cole, R., 2018. Modern slavery in supply chains: a secondary data analysis 
of detection, remediation and disclosure. Supply Chain Manag.: Int. J. 23, 81 – 99 .
Strand, V., Lotfi, M., Flynn, A., Walker, H., 2024. A systematic literature review of 
modern slavery in supply chain management: state of the art, framework 
development and research opportunities. J. Clean. Prod. 435, 140301 .
Stringer, C., Michailova, S., 2018. Why modern slavery thrives in multinational 
corporations ’ global value chains. Multinatl. Bus. Rev. 26, 194 – 206 .
Taylor, L.R., Shih, E., 2019. Worker feedback technologies and combatting modern 
slavery in global supply chains. J. British Acad. 7 (Suppl. issue 1), 131 – 165 .
Touboulic, A., Walker, H., 2015. Theories in sustainable supply chain management: a 
structured literature review. Int. J. Phys. Distrib. Logist. Manag. 45, 16 – 42 .
Wernerfelt, B., 1984. A resource-based view of the firm. Strateg. Manag. J. 5, 171 – 180 .
Cory Searcy is a professor of industrial engineering at Toronto Metropolitan University 
(TMU). He currently serves as the Assistant Vice-President, International at TMU, as well 
as a corporate sustainability section editor at the Journal of Business Ethics .
Pavel Castka is a professor of supply chain management and sustainability at Xi ’ an Jiao -
tong- Liverpool University (XJTLU), China. He currently serves as Associate Dean for 
Professional Engagement at International Business School Suzhou (IBSS) as well as com -
mittee member at TC176, International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
Grant Michelson is a professor of management at Macquarie Business School, Sydney, 
Australia. His interests include corporate social responsibility and employee experiences of 
contemporary workplaces.
Xiaoli Zhao is an assistant professor of strategic management at Xi ’ an Jiaotong-Liverpool 
University (XJTLU), China. Her interests include strategic aspects of networks providing 
plant-based dietary alternatives, wisdom leadership and international joint venture 
management.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
16 