--- PAGE 1 ---
Avail able online at www .sciencedirect.com
Digital transformation of the agri-food system
Mahdi Vahdanjoo , Claus Grøn Sørensen and Michael Nørremark 
The purpose of this paper is to examine the role of digital 
transformation in the agri-food sector. The study emphasizes 
digitalization as both an enabler of production efficiency and a 
radical innovator, redesigning business models and agricultural 
practices. The study explores the development of applications 
and products that connect consumers, supply chain actors, 
and producers, leading to customized food products. It 
highlights the notion of circular agri-food systems for feedback 
loops in the value chain, minimizing waste and integrating 
environmental and social values. Also, the paper explores the 
challenges in digital adoption, including technical barriers, 
privacy, and security concerns. To overcome these challenges, 
an interdisciplinary approach is proposed, merging 
technological, ecological, economic, and governance insights. 
Key needs identified for successful digital transformation 
include enhanced data processing, technological convergence, 
sustainability awareness, interoperability, and user adoption. 
The conclusion stresses the importance of invoking systemic 
thinking, user-friendly designs, and interdisciplinary 
collaboration in making sure that digital innovations enable a 
sustainable and resilient food production system.
Address
Aarhus University, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 
Blichers Allé 20, DK-8830 Tjele, Denmark  
Corresponding author:  
Sørensen, Claus Grøn ( claus.soerensen@ece.au.dk )
Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63 :101287
This review comes from a themed issue on Innovations in Food 
Science
Edited by Davide Giacalone
For complete overview of the section, please refer to the article 
collection, “ Innovations in Food Science 2024 ”
Available online 24 February 2025
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cofs.2025.101287
2214–7993/© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is 
an open access article under the CC BY license ( http:// 
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).
Introduction
A healthy, attractive, sustainable, and scalable food 
system is crucial for Green Transition and requires en -
abling Digital Transformation. Sustainable agri-food 
systems involve large-scale coordination of farming and 
value chain operations, resource use, and food chains, 
and they require extensive digital devices and infra -
structure technologies to enable and provide data and 
digital information chains [1] . Digitalization develops in 
two main pathways: 1) as an incremental enabler of 
production efficiency and sustainability metrics, policy 
monitoring, and so on, and 2) as an enabler of radical 
innovation and systemic changes, new redesigned pro -
cesses, new business models, as a game-changer by 
changing farmer identity, farm work, farmer skills, 
ownership, privacy, and ethics [2] .
A key digital innovation is to enable/enhance the inter -
linking (hyper-connecting) of consumers and producers 
in innovative ways by developing innovative applica -
tions, differentiating products, and reaching an advanced 
level of food product customization, feeding back in -
formation to the production. This creates an extended 
diversity of needs, requirements, and preferences. In 
this way, besides working with the farm-to-fork concept, 
engagement and demand-driven food production (from 
fork to farm) will be pursued at the same time [3] . De -
cision-making by various stakeholders in the food 
system will become more efficient as information flows 
will become transparent, providing only the information 
relevant to a specific decision [4] .
Digital transformation
Digital transformation refers to a comprehensive change in 
business strategies, management models, and operations by 
incorporating digital technologies (DTs). It encompasses the 
digitalization of processes and the formation of extended 
supply chain relationships and making use of the internet in 
various aspects of the business. This transformation will lead 
to improved products and services, more efficient opera -
tions, cost reductions, and a competitive advantage in the 
market [5–7] .
DTs are diverse and complex and often divided into four 
groups: efficiency technologies (e.g. Cloud Computing), 
connectivity technologies (e.g. Internet of Things [IoT]), 
trust disintermediation technologies (e.g. Blockchain), and 
automation technologies (e.g. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and 
Big Data) [8] . The process includes a ‘digitization’ stage 
converting from analog to digital data, a ‘digitalization’ stage 
incorporating specific DTs into various business processes, 
and a final ‘digital transformation’ stage representing a 
comprehensive and widespread adoption of DTs, leading to 
new business models and a transformation of the logic and 
value-creation process. Figure 1 represents some of the 
technologies applied in digital transformation.
]]
]] 
]]]]]]
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63 :101287

--- PAGE 2 ---
Circular agri-food system
Agri-food systems encompass a wide range of activities, 
starting from the primary production of food and non- 
food agricultural products to their storage, post-harvest 
handling, transportation, processing, distribution, mar -
keting, consumption, and disposal/reuse — see Figure 2 . 
Creating a circular agri-food system requires diverting 
end-of-life products from being discarded as waste and 
instead replacing primary input resources with secondary 
materials obtained through the reprocessing of these 
end-of-life products in closed-loop supply chains [9] . 
The creation of a circular system is closely linked to the 
concept of a circular economy, where a circular economy 
is a regenerative system that minimizes resource waste, 
gas emissions, and energy leakage by slowing down, 
closing, and narrowing material and energy loops [10] .
The circular economy can have a significant impact on 
the agri-food system. By adopting the principles of the 
circular economy, organizations can design an organiza -
tional architecture that not only considers economic 
value but also sustains the environmental and social 
value embedded in the product or service throughout its 
entire lifecycle [11] . By promoting the principles of re -
duction, reuse, and recycling, the circular economy aims 
to minimize waste and maximize resource efficiency in 
Figure 1  
E-COMMERCE
AI-TECH
IOT
BIG DATA
BLOCKCHAIN
DIGITAL
TWINES
SMART SENSORS
CRM
CLOUD COMPUTING
ERP
AUTOMATION
Digital 
transforma�on 
components
Current Opinion in Food Science
Components of digital transformation.  
2 Innovations in Food Science 
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63 :101287

--- PAGE 3 ---
all sectors, including agriculture and food production 
[12] . The circular economy can also lead to the devel -
opment of more sustainable business models and tech -
nologies. Companies can adopt practices such as 
product-as-a-service and sharing platforms that extend 
the life of products and reduce the need for constant 
production of new goods. This can also reduce the en -
vironmental impact of DTs, such as e-waste and energy 
consumption [13] . The circular economy can help opti -
mize resource use, reduce food waste, and improve 
overall sustainability. Farmers can adopt practices such 
as regenerative agriculture, which focuses on preserving 
and enhancing natural resources like soil health and 
water systems. Food manufacturers can also find ways to 
reduce packaging waste and implement strategies for 
recycling and reusing food products [14] .
Digital transformation is a requirement for developing a 
robust circular agri-food system by enabling more effi -
cient and sustainable practices in the production, dis -
tribution, and consumption of food [15] . Blockchain has 
been widely explored in agri-food digital transformation. 
It can be used to create transparent and traceable supply 
chains, allowing consumers to track the journey of their 
food from farm to table. This can help build trust in the 
food system, reduce food fraud, and enable better 
Figure 2  
PRODUCTION
GROWING, HARVESTING
PROCESSING
TRANSFORMING, 
PACKAGING
DISTRIBUTION
WAREHOUSING, 
TRANSPORTING, 
RETAILLING
CONSUMPTION
DISPOSAL/REUSING AGRO-FOOD 
SYSTEM
Current Opinion in Food Science
Circular agri-food system.  
DIGITRANS Vahdanjoo, Sørensen and Nørremark 3
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63 :101287

--- PAGE 4 ---
decision-making for sustainable sourcing [16] . Block -
chain also plays a transformative role in smart contracts 
and trust-building by ensuring security, transparency, 
and automation in various industries. However, chal -
lenges like high implementation costs and scalability 
issues, adoption barriers and resistance from stake -
holders, energy consumption and environmental con -
cerns, and data accuracy and verification issues have 
limited their full potential.
Digital transformation can help identify inefficiencies in 
the food supply chain and facilitate the redistribution of 
surplus food to those in need. Technologies such as AI 
and machine learning can also predict and prevent food 
spoilage, reducing waste at all stages of the agri-food 
system [17] . AI enhances decision-making in agri-food 
systems by analyzing vast amounts of data from sensors, 
satellites, and market trends to guide farmers, pro -
cessors, and supply chain managers. Moreover, AI-driven 
predictive analytics uses historical data and machine 
learning models to foresee and mitigate risks in agri-food 
systems. AI-powered automation can transform a system 
from static setting to dynamic and self-learning; it can 
reduce labor dependency, increase efficiency, and 
minimize natural resources and waste throughout the 
agri-food value chain. Digital platforms can facilitate the 
exchange of by-products and waste materials between 
different actors in the agri-food system, promoting cir -
cular economy practices such as recycling, composting, 
and energy recovery. This can help reduce the en -
vironmental impact of food production and create new 
revenue streams for farmers and businesses [18] .
Digital transformation in the agri-food system
The agri-food sector is experiencing major transforma -
tions due to factors like the rapid growth of the global 
population, climate change, and economic globalization 
[5–7] . Contemporary terms such as Agriculture 4.0, 
Precision Agriculture, and Smart farming all refer to 
various forms of DT adoptions in this sector [5,19] . 
Therefore, to promote digital transformations in this 
field, it is crucial to understand the characteristics of the 
agri-food supply chain, like the perishable nature of its 
products, emphasis on customer satisfaction, and en -
vironmental impact [20] . The agri-food supply chain 
entails significant challenges impacting the entire chain, 
including sustainability issues like high energy and 
water consumption, land use and soil erosion, in -
adequate waste management, and greenhouse gas 
emissions [21] . Additionally, there are challenges related 
to food waste stemming from transportation, insufficient 
storage facilities, stringent export regulations, food 
safety and security such as food fraud, traceability dis -
crepancies, and inadequate implementation of food se -
curity initiatives [22] . Table 1 represents different 
elements of the agri-food’s value chain, such as 
production, processing, distribution/consumption, and 
the disposal/reusing system with the impact of DTs and 
their application in agri-food systems.
Drivers of digital transformation in agri-food 
system
Digital transformation is a prerequisite and enabler for 
improving products and services, as well as the man -
agement of operations, making them more efficient. It 
also offers the potential for cost reduction and a com -
petitive advantage in the market. The key drivers of 
digital transformation include technological advance -
ments (for more examples, see Table 1 , component of 
DT), increasing demand for efficiency and productivity, 
food safety and traceability, sustainability, resource 
management, changing market dynamics and competi -
tiveness, connectivity, and infrastructure development 
(for more examples, see Table 1 , impact of DT).
The agri-food industry is confronted with various market 
challenges, including the unpredictable nature of com -
modity prices, the ever-evolving consumer preferences, 
and the complex landscape of global trade regulations 
[20] . However, with the advent of digital transformation, 
businesses can now effectively navigate these challenges 
through the strategic use of data and insights [35] . DTs 
enable enterprises to swiftly adapt to market changes, 
make well-informed decisions, and offer personalized 
products and services to their customers [36] . This en -
ables businesses within the agri-food industry to remain 
competitive in today’s dynamic marketplace.
The ever-growing accessibility of internet connectivity, 
especially in rural regions, combined with the advance -
ment in digital infrastructure, has opened up a world of 
possibilities for the digitization of agri-food systems. 
Farmers, agribusinesses, and various stakeholders can 
now tap into a wealth of valuable information, effort -
lessly communicate and collaborate, establish market 
connections, and harness the power of digital tools and 
platforms to enhance their operations.
The digital transformation of the agri-food sector is in -
tertwined with geopolitical factors, necessitating adap -
tive strategies for resilience. Cross-border data flows and 
e-commerce, crucial to this transformation, are influ -
enced by trade policies and regulations. Geopolitical 
events like trade wars and regional conflicts can disrupt 
supply chains, prompting the sector to leverage tech -
nologies such as IoT, blockchain, AI, and modeling for 
agility and resilience.
DTs, including marketplaces and blockchain, reduce 
reliance on traditional intermediaries (by combining 
smart contracts for automation and blockchain for trust- 
building, businesses and individuals can engage in 
4 Innovations in Food Science 
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287

--- PAGE 5 ---
Table 1 
The impact and application of DT in agri-food system. 
Agri-food system Impact of DT Component of DT Application of DT in agri-food References
Production Enhance efficiency, productivity, sustainability, and 
transparency
Smartphone applications, precision 
agriculture
Irrigation, fertilization, and harvesting of crops [6,23,24]
Remotely monitoring, tracking, and managing the 
performance of machineries
Global Navigation Satellite 
System (GNSS)
Crop’s health and yield, livestock [25]
Remotely monitoring, prediction, and decision-making 
processes related to the crop’s health and livestock
IoT, sensors, drones, data analytics and 
machine learning algorithms
Soil moisture, and pest infestations [26]
Processing Enhance productivity, reduce waste, enhance food safety, 
increase traceability and sustainable
IoT, sensors, actuators, and connected 
machineries, robots, and automation 
systems
Process optimization, anomalies detection [6]
Resilient and adaptive to changing market demands Big Data, advanced analytics, and AI Sorting, packing, and quality control [7,27]
Reducing labor costs, enhancing speed and accuracy, and 
minimizing the risk of accidents
Robots and automation systems, AI, 
sensors
Sorting, packing, and quality control [28]
Distribution and 
consumption
Improve efficiency, transparency, and sustainability IoT, AI, blockchain, data analytics, and 
mobile applications
Supply chain management [27]
Real-time monitoring, tracking food products during 
transport, ensuring food safety and quality
Blockchain, IA, sensors Inventory management and transportation 
routing
[7]
Prevent foodborne illnesses, reduce the risk of recalls, and 
build consumer trust in the quality and safety of food products
IoT, sensors Supply chain management [29]
Predict demand, optimize logistics, identifying inefficiencies, 
and automating tasks, facilitate personalized marketing and 
direct-to-consumer sales
Online marketplaces and delivery 
platforms, AI algorithms
Supply chain management, Personalized 
recommendations, and targeted advertising
[30]
Food disposal/reusing Optimize waste management, enhancing sustainability and 
efficiency
IoT, sensors Waste management [6]
Optimize processes and predict future waste, aiding efficient 
resource allocation
Advanced analytics and machine learning Waste generation, disposal/reuse flows [31]
Facilitating surplus food redistribution and reducing waste Digital platforms Stakeholders’ connection [32]
Ensures traceability, transparency, and tracking food origins Blockchain, mobile apps, and web tools Waste management [33]
Enhancing efficiency and recycled material quality Robotic systems Waste facilities automate sorting, recycling, 
and composting
[34]
DIGITRANS Vahdanjoo, Sørensen and Nørremark 5
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287

--- PAGE 6 ---
secure, transparent, and efficient transactions without 
relying on intermediaries), but geopolitical pro -
tectionism can impose data localization laws, impacting 
cloud-based and data-sharing solutions. Conversely, 
geopolitical collaborations offer opportunities for 
knowledge exchange and technology transfer, fostering 
sectoral innovation. The sector’s growth is also tied to e- 
commerce, the online trading model that aligns it with 
global economic and political trends.
In the digitally transforming agri-food sector, securing 
data is vital, especially with rising geopolitical tensions 
heightening cyber threats. Robust cybersecurity is cru -
cial to protect sensitive data and critical infrastructure 
against these threats [37] . Blockchain technology is 
particularly beneficial, enhancing traceability and redu -
cing fraud in cross-border e-commerce and food supply 
chains [38] . Keeping hardware and software updated is 
essential for cybersecurity. With increased awareness 
and stricter data protection regulations, including man -
datory breach notifications and higher fines, the sector is 
expected to align its digital transformation with these 
cybersecurity demands. Companies need to navigate 
these regulations while ensuring data security and 
privacy compliance. However, failing to adopt cyberse -
curity practices to the agri-food sector’s unique structure 
and complexities could lead to vulnerabilities, risking 
food supply chain disruptions. As reliance on DT grows 
in agriculture, cybersecurity risks underscore the need 
for significant investment in cybersecurity research and 
development to safeguard the food and feed supply.
Challenges of digital transformation in agri- 
food systems
One of the primary barriers to successful digital trans -
formation is the concern over data privacy and security. 
Both public and private organizations regularly en -
counter difficulties in guaranteeing the security and 
privacy of data shared during digital transformation in -
itiatives [39] . This can result in a lack of trust among 
stakeholders and impede collaboration. Establishing 
trust among stakeholders is essential for the effective 
implementation of digital transformation [40] . Issues 
such as a lack of transparency in data exchange processes 
and governance can create obstacles to collaboration and 
impede progress. Additionally, power dynamics within 
supply chains can pose a significant barrier to successful 
digital transformation efforts [41] . Companies may en -
counter resistance from suppliers or partners who are 
reluctant to embrace new technologies or processes.
The digital divide is yet another obstacle to transfor -
mation, referring to the gap between those with access to 
DTs and those without [42] . This discrepancy can 
hinder digital transformation, as organizations may 
struggle to engage with stakeholders who lack digital 
literacy or essential technological infrastructure. Ad -
ditionally, inadequate technology infrastructure can im -
pede digital transformation efforts, especially in regions 
with limited connectivity or outdated systems.
Organizations may face challenges implementing new 
technologies or processes without the necessary infra -
structure in place [43] . Integrating various systems and 
technologies can also be complex, particularly when sys -
tems are not compatible. This lack of interoperability can 
create barriers to data exchange and collaboration be -
tween organizations. Inconsistent data formats and stan -
dards can further impede the exchange of information, 
resulting in inefficiencies and errors. Achieving data in -
teroperability is crucial for successful digital transforma -
tion initiatives [44] . Organizations operating across 
borders must navigate a complex regulatory environment, 
characterized by varying data protection and privacy laws 
in different countries [45] . A deeper engagement with 
governance and policy aspects, including interoperability, 
regulations, and compliance, is obvious for ensuring effi -
ciency, legal certainty, and sustainable growth.
The digitalization of the agri-food system faces key aca -
demic challenges. These include designing IT systems with 
a clear purpose, specifying accurate data requirements, uti -
lizing big data analytics, developing digital twins, and en -
suring data interoperability and standardization. Moreover, 
there is a lack of reference and ground truth data for vali -
dating sensor data and enhancing AI capabilities in agri -
culture. The nature of diversified and circular agri-food 
systems further complicates these challenges, requiring in -
novative and adaptable digital solutions.
Digitalization requires an interdisciplinary approach, 
combining expertise from data science, computer sci -
ence, system engineering (including AI, Machine 
Learning, and Big Data), and communication technolo -
gies. Additionally, it demands insights from social sci -
ences, economics, business, and organizational studies to 
understand its broader impacts. Knowledge in produc -
tion and operations management, along with biological 
science and domain-specific expertise, is crucial. 
Importantly, digitalization must be evaluated at a system 
level, not just at the device level, to ensure holistic and 
sustainable integration across various domains.
Digital transformation of agri-food systems requires a 
systemic approach to digitalization that looks beyond in -
dividual technologies to explore interconnected techno -
logical systems, such as IoT and sensor networks, and 
data ecosystems, as well as how they interact with agri -
cultural, ecological, economic, and regulatory systems. 
This requires integration across user-level digitalization, 
farm-level digitalization, agri-food chain digitalization, 
and policy-level digitalization. This multilevel integration 
must ensure a comprehensive digital transformation, 
6 Innovations in Food Science 
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287

--- PAGE 7 ---
addressing the complexities of the agri-food sector for 
more efficient, sustainable, and resilient food systems.
Given the complex challenges within the agri-food value 
chain, particularly in areas such as real-time replanning 
and optimization, it is evident that DT still faces ob -
stacles in efficiently processing vast amounts of data, 
adapting to dynamic conditions, and providing action -
able solutions promptly. Interoperability and standardi -
zation of data formats also pose significant hurdles, as 
data from various sources often differ in structure and 
frequency, making cohesive integration a daunting task.
Moreover, optimization algorithms, particularly those 
leveraging AI and machine learning, can be computa -
tionally intensive, adding another layer of complexity to 
the digitalization of agriculture. Data transfer limitations 
also present a critical issue, especially in large-scale 
systems, amplifying the complexity and flow of data 
within the agri-food system.
Coordinating multiple interconnected entities in real- 
time, such as vehicles, machinery, and personnel, further 
compounds the challenges of synchronization and deci -
sion-making. Additionally, developing user-friendly in -
terfaces for decision-making tools remains a crucial 
concern, especially in human-in-the-loop systems where 
operators rely on clear, understandable data outputs for 
quick decision-making.
The traceability of products within the agri-food system, 
aided by blockchain technology, is another critical issue 
that has not been fully realized due to infrastructure 
limitations and cost constraints. Furthermore, issues 
surrounding data ownership, regulations, and policies in 
data spaces present ongoing challenges that must be 
addressed in order to fully unlock the potential of DT in 
the agricultural sector.
Based on Figure 3 , it can be concluded that the value 
chain of a circular agri-food system is intricate, involving 
Figure 3  
Current Opinion in Food Science
Overview of digital transformation in agri-food system.
DIGITRANS Vahdanjoo, Sørensen and Nørremark 7
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63 :101287

--- PAGE 8 ---
numerous stakeholders with varying levels of interest in 
digitalization. Implementing digital transformation 
components is the key to addressing the complexities 
and challenges within this system.
Synthesis and conclusion
This review has made a key contribution by identifying 
the challenges and opportunities of digital transitions 
throughout the entire value chain in the agri-food 
system, spanning from production to disposal. In addi -
tion, it examines the required components of digital 
transformation specifically applied in the agri-food in -
dustry. The analysis presented in this review effectively 
identifies key factors driving or hindering the digital 
transformation process within the agri-food system.
This review lays the baseline for the future debate by 
recommending a systems approach towards digitaliza -
tion, which refers to the comprehensive integration of 
DTs into all aspects of an organization or system, con -
sidering not only individual technologies but also their 
interconnections, processes, and the overall ecosystem. 
This review shows that, instead of using isolated tools, 
the system approach emphasizes the importance of the 
interconnectedness of digital tools, data, infrastructure, 
and workflows. This review concludes that by adopting a 
systems thinking perspective, digitalization benefits the 
entire organization by improving workflows, reducing 
costs, and enhancing customer experiences. This ap -
proach considers long-term sustainability, scalability, 
and collaboration with partners and stakeholders to 
create a networked digital ecosystem. This approach 
allows organizations to remain agile and adaptable, re -
sponding quickly to market changes and technological 
advancements.
The authors assess, based on this review, that the digital 
transformation of the agri-food system still needs several 
improvements and requirements. One is enhanced data 
processing/data sharing, which creates the foundation for 
better decision-making. Secondly, efficient processing 
and sharing of data enables stakeholders to make in -
formed choices based on real-time information and 
trends, which are formed by four needs. The first need is 
the convergence of technologies, where various tech -
nologies are integrated, such as IoT, AI, and blockchain, 
to work seamlessly together and lead to more efficient 
and effective solutions in agricultural practices. The 
second is digitalization for sustainable food production 
awareness, where digital tools are used to quantify sus -
tainability indicators, raising awareness about the sus -
tainability impact of food production, including tracking 
carbon footprints, water usage, and other sustainability 
metrics. The third is improved interoperability, stan -
dards, and semantics to ensure that different digital 
systems and tools can communicate and work together 
effectively as a crucial prerequisite for a unified digital 
approach. The fourth is enhanced user adoption focusing 
on how users, especially farmers and food producers, 
adopt and interact with technology and involve user- 
friendly designs, training, and support systems.
Addressing these needs requires an interdisciplinary 
approach that goes beyond technology itself. It involves 
understanding human-to-technology interactions, chan -
ging mindsets about how digitalization integrates with 
production systems, and focusing on implementing di -
gital systems from a total system perspective. This 
comprehensive approach ensures that digital transfor -
mation not only enhances efficiency but also supports 
sustainable and resilient food production systems.
Data Availability
No data were used for the research described in the article.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationship that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to acknowledge the support of The Centre for 
Sustainable Agrifood Systems (START) for initiating the research colla -
boration, which significantly contributed to this study.
References and recommended reading
Papers of particular interest, published within the period of review, have 
been highlighted as: 
•• of special interest
•• of outstanding interest
1 . El Bilali H, Strassner C, Ben Hassen T: Sustainable agri-food 
systems: environment, economy, society, and policy. 
Sustainability 2021, 17:1667.
2 . Balogun AL, Marks D, Sharma R, Shekhar H, Balmes C, Maheng D, 
Arshad A, Salehi P: Assessing the potentials of digitalization as 
a tool for climate change adaptation and sustainable 
development in urban centres. Sustain Cities Soc 2020, 
53:101888.
3 . Reinhardt T: The farm to fork strategy and the digital 
transformation of the agrifood sector — an assessment from 
the perspective of innovation systems. Appl Econ Perspect 
Policy 2023, 45:819-838.
4 . Wang R, Bush-Evans R, Arden-Close E, Bolat E, McAlaney J, 
Hodge S, Thomas S, Phalp K: Transparency in persuasive 
technology, immersive technology, and online marketing: 
facilitating users’ informed decision making and practical 
implications. Comput Hum Behav 2023, 139:107545.
5.
••
Hassoun A, Marvin HJP, Bouzembrak Y, Barba FJ, Castagnini JM, 
Pallarés N, Rabail R, Aadil RM, Bangar SP, Bhat R, et al.: Digital 
transformation in the agri-food industry: recent applications 
and the role of the COVID-19 pandemic. Front Sustain Food Syst 
2023, 7:1217813. 
Publication explores the integration of DTs in the agri-food industry, 
emphasizing the impact of COVID-19 in driving adoption. The study 
discusses the benefits, challenges, and practical applications of these 
technologies, highlighting the role of Industry 4.0 innovations. It also 
presents recommendations for achieving inclusive digital transformation 
in the food industry.
8 Innovations in Food Science 
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287

--- PAGE 9 ---
6.
••
Sridhar A, Ponnuchamy M, Kumar PS, Kapoor A, Nguyen Vo DV, 
Rangasamy G: Digitalization of the agro-food sector for 
achieving sustainable development goals: a review. Sustain 
Food Technol 2023, 1:783-802. 
Publication highlights the significance of food security and agricultural 
sustainability in the face of rising food demand, inequality, climate 
change, and pandemics. The authors suggest that DTs can solve 
challenges in the agro-food sector, enhance production and supply 
chain, and achieve sustainable development goals. They propose in -
tegrating AI, precision farming, and big data analytics to boost yield and 
sustainability. Digitalization in agriculture can also cut costs and waste, 
while improvements in food safety and electronic commerce are an -
ticipated, with potential advancements in blockchain technology for 
improved traceability and personalized nutrition.
7.
••
Balyan S, Jangir H, Tripathi SN, Tripathi A, Jhang T, Pandey P: 
Seeding a sustainable future: navigating the digital horizon of 
smart agriculture. Sustainability 2024, 16:475. 
Publication highlights the importance of agriculture for human survival 
but acknowledges that it is facing challenges due to climate change. The 
agriculture industry is using various measures and technologies to 
adapt, including plant breeding, robotics, and big data. The digitalization 
wave offers opportunities for smart farming but also presents challenges 
such as high implementation costs and data security concerns. The shift 
to digital farming offers solutions for environmental issues and economic 
growth, with future advancements potentially including data encryption 
and economic policies.
8 . Santos FJ, Guzmán C, Ahumada P: Assessing the digital 
transformation in agri-food cooperatives and its determinants. 
J Rural Stud 2024, 105:103168.
9 . Miranda BV, Monteiro GFA, Rodrigues VP: Circular agri-food 
systems: a governance perspective for the analysis of 
sustainable agri-food value chains. Technol Forecast Soc 
Change 2021, 170:120878.
10 . Geissdoerfer M, Pieroni MPP, Pigosso DCA, Soufani K: Circular 
business models: a review. J Clean Prod 2020, 277:123741.
11.
•
Farace B, Tarabella A: Exploring the role of digitalization as a 
driver for the adoption of circular economy principles in 
agrifood SMEs — an interpretive case study. Br Food J 2024, 
126:409-427 , https://doi.org/10.1108/BFJ-12-2022-1103 . 
Publication explores how digitalization can help integrate circular 
economy principles in the Italian agrifood sector, using a case study of a 
small and medium enterprise. The findings show that digitalization op -
timizes resource use, minimizes waste, and interacts with sustainability 
and resilience concepts. The study also highlights the importance of 
digital transition in the agrifood industry, which faces resistance due to 
the size of firms and managerial conservatism tradition.
12 . Renaldi V: Sustainable energy transition: circular economy and 
sustainable financing for environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) practices. Soc Environ Account J 2024, 
44:266-269 , https://doi.org/10.1080/0969160X.2024.2401212
13 . Channi HK, Kumar R: Chapter 14 — Digital technologies for 
fostering sustainability in Industry 4.0. In Evolution and Trends of 
Sustainable Approaches. Edited by Rossit DA, Hussain CM. 
Elsevier; 2024:227-251.
14 . Cahyadi ER, Hidayati N, Zahra N, Arif C: Integrating circular 
economy principles into agri-food supply chain management: a 
systematic literature review. Sustainability 2024, 16:7165.
15 . Sica D, Esposito B, Malandrino O, Supino S: The role of digital 
technologies for the LCA empowerment towards circular 
economy goals: a scenario analysis for the agri-food system. 
Int J Life Cycle Assess 2024, 29:1486-1509.
16 . Oriekhoe OI, Ilugbusi BS, Adisa O: Ensuring global food safety: 
integrating blockchain technology into food supply chains. Eng 
Sci Technol J 2024, 5:811-820.
17 . Suali AS, Srai JS, Tsolakis N: The role of digital platforms in e- 
commerce food supply chain resilience under exogenous 
disruptions. Supply Chain Manag 2024, 29:573-601.
18 . Viscardi S, Colicchia C: A classification of food products to 
enhance circular economy and reduce waste: a systematic 
literature review. Resour Conserv Recycl Adv 2024, 23:200229.
19.
••
Dayioğlu MA, Türker U: Digital transformation for sustainable 
future-agriculture 4.0: a review. Tarim Bilim Derg 2021, 
27:373-399. 
The article discusses the challenges faced by agriculture, such as global 
warming and climate change. It emphasizes the need for digital solu -
tions and outlines the transition from traditional to digital agriculture. 
Various technologies and applications are explained, and the authors 
conclude that innovations can contribute to a sustainable future.
20.
•
Yadav VS, Singh AR, Gunasekaran A, Raut RD, Narkhede BE: A 
systematic literature review of the agro-food supply chain: 
challenges, network design, and performance measurement 
perspectives. Sustain Prod Consum 2022, 29:685-704. 
Publication discusses the challenges faced by the agriculture food 
supply chain (AFSC), including food safety, sustainability, government 
regulation, and traceability issues. It also reviews research on designing 
the agro-food supply chain network and investigates performance 
measurement using 108 articles. The article highlights the potential of 
technology adoption and integration, as well as the digital transforma -
tion of AFSC. It emphasizes other research trends and identifies pos -
sible future challenges.
21 . Joshi S, Singh RK, Sharma M: Sustainable agri-food supply 
chain practices: few empirical evidences from a developing 
economy. Glob Bus Rev 2023, 24:451-474.
22 . Islam N, Nazir W, Khalid N: Conceptual study of problems and 
challenges associated with the food supply chain in developing 
countries. Arab Gulf J Sci Res 2021, 39:100-117.
23 . Fuentes-Peñailillo F, Gutter K, Vega R, Silva GC: Transformative 
technologies in digital agriculture: leveraging Internet of 
Things, remote sensing, and artificial intelligence for smart 
crop management. J Sens Actuator Netw 2024, 13:39.
24 . Papadopoulos G, Arduini S, Uyar H, Psiroukis V, Kasimati A, 
Fountas S: Economic and environmental benefits of digital 
agricultural technologies in crop production: a review. Smart 
Agric Technol 2024, 8:100441.
25 . McCampbell M: Give to AgEcon Search Agricultural 
digitalization and automation in low-and middle-income 
countries: Evidence from ten case studies; 2022.
26 . Vinod Chandra SS, Anand Hareendran G, Albaaji GF: Precision 
farming for sustainability: an agricultural intelligence model. 
Comput Electron Agric 2024, 226:109386.
27.
•
Konfo TRC, Djouhou FMC, Hounhouigan MH, Dahouenon-Ahoussi 
E, Avlessi F, Sohounhloue CKD: Recent advances in the use of 
digital technologies in agri-food processing: a short review. 
Appl Food Res 2023, 3:100329. 
Publication discusses the recent advances in using DTs in agri-food 
processing to meet the increasing demand for food while addressing 
sustainability concerns. These technologies offer benefits such as in -
creased efficiency and reduced waste and enable real-time monitoring 
of critical parameters to ensure food quality and safety. The review also 
covers the challenges and opportunities for adopting DTs in the industry 
and highlights its potential for revolutionary transformation.
28 . Yap CK, Al-Mutairi KA: A conceptual model relationship 
between Industry 4.0 — food-agriculture nexus and 
agroecosystem: a literature review and knowledge gaps. Foods 
2024, 13:150.
29 . Chhetri KB: Applications of artificial intelligence and machine 
learning in food quality control and safety assessment. Food 
Eng Rev 2024, 16:1-21.
30 . Haleem A, Javaid M, Asim Qadri M, Pratap Singh R, Suman R: 
Artificial intelligence (AI) applications for marketing: a 
literature-based study. Int J Intell Netw 2022, 3:119-132.
31 . da Costa TP, Gillespie J, Cama-Moncunill X, Ward S, Condell J, 
Ramanathan R, Murphy F: A systematic review of real-time 
monitoring technologies and its potential application to reduce 
food loss and waste: key elements of food supply chains and 
IoT technologies. Sustainability 2023, 15:614.
32 . Schroder A, Prockl G: Ioanna Constantiou: 53rd Hawaii 
International Conference on System Sciences (HICCS), January 
5–8, 2021. University of Hawai’i at Manoa; 2021.
DIGITRANS Vahdanjoo, Sørensen and Nørremark 9
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287

--- PAGE 10 ---
33 . Pakseresht A, Yavari A, Kaliji SA, Hakelius K: The intersection of 
blockchain technology and circular economy in the agri-food 
sector1. Sustain Prod Consum 2023, 35:260-274.
34 . Salem KS, Clayson K, Salas M, Haque N, Rao R, Agate S, Singh A, 
Levis JW, Mittal A, Yarbrough JM, et al.: A critical review of 
existing and emerging technologies and systems to optimize 
solid waste management for feedstocks and energy 
conversion. Matter 2023, 6:3348-3377.
35.
•
Choudhary L, Swami S: Harnessing the power of big data: 
revolutionizing agriculture. Curr J Appl Sci Technol 2023, 
42:40-49. 
Publication highlights the utilization of big data in the agriculture industry 
to improve productivity and addresses challenges such as global food 
crises. Smart farming leverages big data for decision-making, efficiency, 
and resource optimization. However, safeguarding sensitive data pre -
sents ethical and legal challenges. The digital revolution in agriculture is 
promising and irreversible.
36 . Alojail M, Khan SB: Impact of digital transformation toward 
sustainable development. Sustainability 2023, 15:14697.
37 . Nobles C, Burrell DN, Waller T, Cusak A: Food sustainability, 
cyber-biosecurity, emerging technologies, and cybersecurity 
risks in the agriculture and food industries. Int J Environ Sustain 
Green Technol 2022, 13:1-17.
38 . Antonucci F, Figorilli S, Costa C, Pallottino F, Raso L, Menesatti P: 
A review on blockchain applications in the agri-food sector. J 
Sci Food Agric 2019, 99:6129-6138.
39 . Stewart H: Digital transformation security challenges. J Comput 
Inf Syst 2022, 63:919-936.
40 . Barrane FZ, Ndubisi NO, Kamble S, Karuranga GE, Poulin D: 
Building trust in multi-stakeholder collaborations for new 
product development in the digital transformation era. 
Benchmark Int J 2021, 28:205-228.
41 . dos Santos Silva J, Matos de Oliveira A, Veríssimo de Oliveira J, 
Bouzon M: Barriers to digital transformation in fruit and 
vegetable supply chains: a multicriteria analysis using ISM and 
MICMAC. OPSEARCH 2025, 62:460-482 , https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s12597-024-00809-6
42 . Samuel-Okon AD, Abejide OO: Bridging the digital divide: 
exploring the role of artificial intelligence and automation in 
enhancing connectivity in developing nations. J Eng Res Rep 
2024.
43 . Hendrawan1 * SA, Chatra A, Iman N, Hidayatullah S, Suprayitno D: 
Digital transformation in MSMEs: challenges and opportunities 
in technology management. J Inf Dan Teknol 2024, 6:141-149.
44 . Ahmed O, Yazdeen AA, Mohammed T, Sami G: Consideration of 
Cloud-Web-Concepts for Standardization and Interoperability 
A Comprehensive Review for Sustainable Enterprise Systems, 
AI, and IoT Integration. JITI; 2024.
45 . Akanfe O, Lawong D, Rao HR: Blockchain technology and 
privacy regulation: reviewing frictions and synthesizing 
opportunities. Int J Inf Manag 2024, 76:102753.
10 Innovations in Food Science 
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287