--- PAGE 1 ---
International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability
ISSN: 1473-5903 (Print) 1747-762X (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/tags20
How do the voluntary sustainability standards
contribute to enhancing smallholder farmers’
livelihoods and progress towards SDGs?
A systematic review of crop-based food
commodities in Ghana and Vietnam
Raﬀaele D’Annolfo & Federica Demaria
To cite this article: Raﬀaele D’Annolfo & Federica Demaria (2026) How do the voluntary
sustainability standards contribute to enhancing smallholder farmers’ livelihoods and
progress towards SDGs? A systematic review of crop-based food commodities in Ghana
and Vietnam, International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability, 24:1, 2616059, DOI:
10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059
To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059
© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa
UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis
Group.
View supplementary material 
Published online: 18 Jan 2026.
 Submit your article to this journal 
Article views: 857
 View related articles 
View Crossmark data
Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=tags20

--- PAGE 2 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY 
2026, VOL. 24, NO. 1, 2616059 
https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059
RESEARCH ARTICLE                                                                      
How do the voluntary sustainability standards contribute to enhancing 
smallholder farmers’ livelihoods and progress towards SDGs? A 
systematic review of crop-based food commodities in Ghana and Vietnam
Raffaele D’Annolfo
 and Federica Demaria
Council for Agricultural Research and Economics (CREA), Research Centre for Agricultural Policies and Bioeconomy (CREA-PB), 
Rome, Italy
ABSTRACT
This research investigates the effects of Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSSs) on small -
holder farmers’ livelihoods within crop-based food commodity value chains in Ghana and 
Vietnam. Using the Sustainable Livelihood Framework (SLF), the study examines how VSSs 
(e.g. Fairtrade, GlobalGAP, Rainforest Alliance) influence the capital endowments upon which 
farmers depend. A systematic review of 26 empirical studies from the Evidensia Library was 
conducted to assess the effects of VSSs on 15 economic, social, and environmental indicators 
within the SLF. The main findings suggest that VSSs can enhance income, capacity building, 
and value chain integration among farmers, alongside other socioeconomic and environ -
mental benefits. However, negative effects are primarily associated with high input costs, 
biodiversity impacts, and the use of agrochemicals. Moreover, challenges and trade-offs 
persist, including limited women’s participation and the transfer of price premiums to 
smallholder farmers adopting sustainability schemes. This study underscores critical issues 
in the implementation of VSSs and provides policy recommendations, including fostering 
bottom-up approaches for extension service provision. It also emphasizes the need for 
stronger partnerships among governments, development agencies, and multistakeholder 
initiatives to address chronic issues of the agrifood system in developing countries, and to 
enhance the role of VSSs in advancing the SDGs by 2030.
ARTICLE HISTORY 
Received 29 January 2025 
Accepted 7 January 2026 
KEYWORDS
Sustainability standards; 
smallholder farmers; SLF; 
commodities; certifications
1. Introduction
Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSSs) are a diverse set of principles and objectives established by third-party 
organisations, under which farmers are independently assessed and certified (Iddrisu et al., 2020 ). While the 
concept of VSSs has existed since the 1970s, their widespread adoption is a relatively recent phenomenon. The 
VSSs emerged as bottom-up, local standards developed worldwide through farmer-led initiatives, such as the 
International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM), which was established in 1972 as a 
communications network among various organic agriculture projects (Addae-Boadu et al., 2017 ). VSSs gained 
prominence in the 1990s, experiencing consistent growth until the early 2010s. Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs) played a crucial role in developing and disseminating standards because, unlike govern -
ments, they were more flexible and less constrained by formal procedures, allowing them to respond more 
effectively to market change (Oosterveer et al., 2014 ). According to the UNCTAD (2023), the proliferation of VSSs 
from the 1990s to the 2010s was influenced by various factors: i) consumer awareness; ii) motivations of firms to 
adopt VSSs; iii) response to failures of multilateral regulatory efforts; iv) reaction to the emergence of other VSSs; 
and v) governments’ engagement with VSSs. However, in the past few years, the expansion of VSSs has been 
slowing down, and the numbers have stabilised since 2017 (UNCTAD, 2023 ).
Theoretically, certification enables producers to set sustainable targets, while allowing consumers to 
differentiate among agricultural products based on their embedded social and environmental characteristics 
(Addae-Boadu et al., 2017 ). This enhanced information supports higher prices for certified products and, in turn, 
Supplemental data for this article can be accessed online at https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059.
© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. 
This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial License ((http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- 
nc/4.0/), which permits unrestricted non-commercial use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. The terms on 
which this article has been published allow the posting of the Accepted Manuscript in a repository by the author(s) or with their consent.
CONTACT Raffaele D’Annolfo 
 raffaele.dannolfo@crea.gov.it
 Council for Agricultural Research and Economics (CREA), Research Centre for 
Agricultural Policies and Bioeconomy (CREA-PB), Via Barberini n. 36, 00187, Rome, Italy

--- PAGE 3 ---
provides financial incentives, known as price premiums, for farmers to meet certification standards (Addae- 
Boadu et al., 2017 ). However, in recent years several scholars have noted that the notion of ‘voluntary’ 
certification is increasingly misleading, particularly in export-oriented sectors such as cocoa, coffee, and palm 
oil. Although formally optional, VSSs very often operate as de facto market requirements (Elamin & de Córdoba, 
2020 ). International buyers and processing companies frequently required certified products as a precondition 
for sourcing (Elamin & de Córdoba, 2020 ). This dynamic has created forms of market-driven coercion whereby 
smallholder farmers have to comply with certification to maintain market access, thus limiting their autonomy in 
decision-making (Bennett, 2021 ; Bitzer & Steijn, 2019 ; Ponte & Sturgeon, 2014 ).
As emphasised by Oya et al. ( 2018 ) and Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ) the VSSs have the potential to provide 
positive economic, environmental and social benefits to smallholder farmers, contributing to several 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the same time. By promoting the adoption of sustainable farming 
practices and increasing product quality, VSSs empower farmers to participate in high-remunerative value 
chains, such as those in the EU and North American markets (Akrong et al., 2022 ). However, the adoption of 
VSSs may also impose additional financial burdens for producers, such as certification costs, and the 
enforcement of higher labour standards (e.g. ILO Conventions), which can be challenging for poorer 
smallholder farmers to meet (Maertens & Swinnen, 2015 ). Moreover, voluntary certifications might also 
shift local production away or redirect agricultural goods from food production to more profitable 
commodity markets (Oosterveer et al., 2014 ). Finally, the lack of institutional coordination, financial and 
technical capacities for accessible certification in developing countries could also represent a significant 
barrier for smallholders in adopting VSSs (FAO, 2014 ; Meemken, 2020 ).
Given the varying effects presented in the literature on the impacts of VSSs, further investigation and 
assessment is needed to understand how certification schemes can effectively contribute to improving 
smallholder farmers’ livelihoods. Adopting an inclusive approach, this study aims to address the following 
research questions:
• Are VSSs effective in improving smallholder farmers’ livelihoods within food-agricultural commodity 
value chains?  
• What are the main advantages and trade-offs associated with VSSs adoption in Ghana and Vietnam?  
• To what extent can VSSs be leveraged as sustainable market-oriented tools to achieve the SDGs Agenda 
by 2030?
2. Methodology
2.1. Socioeconomic and environmental indicators
The analysis of the effects of VSSs on smallholder farmers’ livelihoods is based on the Sustainable Livelihood 
Framework (SLF), originally developed by Chambers & Conway, ( 1992 ) and later adapted by the Department for 
International Development of the UK (DFID, 1999 ). According to the SLF, a livelihood is made up of capabilities, 
material and social capitals, and activities required to earn a living (DFID, 1999 ). The SLF has been widely used as 
a tool to analyse rural poverty from a multidimensional perspective (Bennett & Franzel, 2013 ; Nelson et al., 2013 ; 
Garibaldi et al., 2017 ; D’Annolfo et al., 2017 ) and to assess which components of certification schemes have the 
greatest impact on farmers’ livelihoods (Fenger et al., 2017 ). The SLF is based on five capital endowments: 
human, social, financial, physical and natural ( Table 1 ). For each of the aforementioned capitals, three relevant 
socioeconomic and environmental indicators were selected based on the literature on VSSs to systematically 
extract and collect quantitative and qualitative evidence ( Table 1 ).
In order to identify the relevant SDGs for the analysis, we referenced the studies of Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ) and 
Kosolapova et al. ( 2023 ), which offered comprehensive mappings of VSSs against the 17 SDGs. Therefore, a 
shortlist of SDGs and related targets was selected according to the main scope of this research ( Table 2 ).
The SLF guided both the coding and synthesis of evidence by classifying each identified livelihood outcome 
under one of the five capitals: human, social, financial, physical, and natural. This structure ensured analytical 
consistency across heterogeneous studies and enabled a systematic comparison of VSS effects across indicators, 
commodities and value chains in different countries. The SLF framework also supported the integration of 
findings into broader sustainability dimensions aligned with the selected SDGs.
2
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 4 ---
2.2. Literature search
The selected studies considered for this analytical assessment have been retrieved from Evidensia Library 
(https://www.evidensia.eco), a multi-stakeholder initiative and knowledge platform providing evidence on 
supply chain sustainability tools, including VSSs. To ensure the comparability and reliability of the results, 
the Evidensia database includes only studies that meet stringent quality criteria in terms of research design 
(Evidensia, 2024 ). For the analysis of the literature, scientific articles and reports have been searched within 
the Evidensia database using filters for the specific tool we were interested in, namely ‘Voluntary 
Sustainability Standards’, and the countries of interest, ‘Ghana’ and ‘Vietnam’. As of the end of January 
2024, 49 publications have been retrieved in total.
2.3. Paper selection and classification criteria
The PRISMA 2020 framework was adopted for the selection of relevant studies (Page et al., 2021 ) ( Figure 1 ). 
Several criteria were applied to screen and classify the 49 studies for this analytical assessment:
1. Studies that were not strictly focused on the production of crop-based food-agricultural commodities 
were excluded. Therefore, non-food agricultural commodities such as cotton and flowers, as well as fish, 
meat, and dairy products, were not considered.  
2. Only empirical studies based on primary data collection in the field were included. These studies had to 
explicitly investigate the relationship between VSSs and farmers’ livelihood outcomes in Ghana and Vietnam. 
3. Publications that merely described the contribution of VSSs to specific outcomes (e.g. gender, bio -
diversity) without explaining the impact of VSSs on these indicators were excluded.
Table 1. Definition of capitals and related socioeconomic and environmental indicators according to the SLF.    
Capital Indicator
Human: the competencies, knowledge, ability to work and health 
status that together enable farmers to pursue livelihood 
strategies and achieve personal and family goals
✓ Gender parity: the level of participation and benefits received by 
women in the value chains  
✓ Labour rights: the adherence to fair labour practices, including the 
provision of formal contracts, equal remuneration without 
discrimination, and safe working conditions  
✓ Capacity building: the provision of training and extension services to 
enhance the skills and knowledge of farmers, enabling them to adopt 
sustainable farming practices
Financial: the economic resources derived from available stocks 
and inflows of money at household level
✓ Yield: the total production of a specific commodity, including the 
output per hectare  
✓ Costs: the expenses incurred by farmers, including certification and 
labour costs   
✓ Income: the total and net income derived from the production of 
certified commodities, including price premiums and profitability 
received for sustainably produced goods
Social: the social resources (e.g. networks, affiliations, associations) 
and relationships (e.g. trust and reciprocity) which farmers draw 
on in pursuit of their livelihood objectives 
✓ Market access: the ability of farmers to sell their products in national 
and international markets  
✓ Value chain integration: the extent to which farmers are integrated 
into horizontal (collaboration with other producers) and vertical 
(linkages with processors and retailers) value chains  
✓ Child labour: the prohibition of child labour, ensuring that children 
are not involved in hazardous agricultural tasks
Physical: the availability of fixed capital (e.g. land), tools and 
equipment (e.g. pruning knives, protective equipment, 
packaging) to support farmers’ business
✓ Land access: the rights and accessibility of land for farmers, including 
secure land tenure  
✓ Tools & equipment: the availability of essential farming tools and 
protective equipment, such as pruning knives and safety gear  
✓ Access to credit: the accessibility of financial services and credit for 
farmers
Natural: the availability of natural resources (e.g. crop and 
livestock diversity) and environmental services (e.g. water 
provisions) which promote the sustainable use of the 
environment
✓ Biodiversity: the variety of plant and animal species present at the 
farm level, including the diversity of vegetables, fruits and livestock  
✓ Water management: the adoption and implementation of practices 
that improve water use efficiency, such as irrigation techniques, 
recycling and conservation methods  
✓ Use of agrochemicals: the regulation and control of chemical inputs 
in farming, including the prohibition of hazardous chemicals and the 
limitation of chemical treatments
Note: Authors’ elaboration based on DFID ( 1999 ). 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 3

--- PAGE 5 ---
The final database included 26 studies, comprising scientific publications and reports ( Table 3 ). The 
selected 26 publications examining the effects of VSSs on smallholder livelihoods comprised 16 peer- 
reviewed articles, 9 technical reports and 1 working paper. Among these, a subset of 21 publications 
conducted a statistical analysis comparing the performance of farms implementing VSSs through 
matching processes, such as comparisons between certified and non-certified farmers or pre- and 
post-intervention.
Finally, an analytical framework was developed in Excel, and the selected socioeconomic and environ -
mental indicators were tested on a limited number of publications (4) to guide the systematic extraction of 
information from the reviewed papers.
2.4.  Data analysis techniques
A vote-counting method was employed to identify general trends between the adoption of VSSs and the 
selected socioeconomic and environmental indicators based on the SLF (D’Annolfo et al., 2017 ; Knowler & 
Bradshaw, 2007 ; Prokopy et al., 2008 ). The following classification of effects was adopted:
• Positive: when the study documented a statistically significant improvement or a clearly stated beneficial 
change in the indicator among certified farmers compared to non-certified farmers, or when the authors 
explicitly attributed the improvement to VSS participation;  
• Neutral: when the study reported no statistically significant difference in the indicator between certified 
and non-certified farmers, or when results were mixed or inconclusive, with no clear directional change 
attributable to sustainability certification; 
Table 2. List of selected SDGs and related targets considered in the analysis.    
SDG Target
1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the 
vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to 
basic services, ownership and control over land and other forms of 
property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology and 
financial services, including microfinance
2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition 
and promote sustainable agriculture
2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale 
food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, 
pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, 
other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, 
markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment
2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement 
resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, 
that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to 
climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters 
and that progressively improve land and soil quality
5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere
6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and 
ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water 
scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from 
water scarcity
8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work 
for all
8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support productive 
activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, 
and encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, small- and 
medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services
8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end 
modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and 
elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and 
use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular 
women migrants, and those in precarious employment
12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals 
and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed 
international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, 
water and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human 
health and the environment
Note: Authors’ elaboration based on UN ( 2015 ). 
4
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 6 ---
• Negative: when the study recorded a statistically significant decline in the indicator among certified 
farmers compared to non-certified farmers, or when the authors clearly stated adverse change in the 
indicator associated with VSS adoption.
The data extracted from the studies were analysed using descriptive statistical techniques, including 
frequency distributions, to investigate the main characteristics of our dataset, such as the most common 
certified commodities and the main SDGs addressed by VSSs. The analysis was conducted using R software 
(version 2023.06.1 + 524) and visualisations, such as bar charts and tables, were also provided accordingly (R 
Core Team, 2023 ).
It should be noted that the vote-counting approach identifies general associations between VSS 
adoption and SLF indicators but does not establish causality. As several studies relied on self-reported 
outcomes and cross-sectional designs, attributing direct cause-effect relationships between VSS adop -
tion and SLF indicators remains challenging. Moreover, heterogeneity in farm characteristics, self- 
selection into certification, the type of local support services available, and international market 
conditions may mediate or confound the observed effects on the selected indicators. These limitations 
highlight the need for more rigorous impact studies to better identify the causal effects of VSS 
adoption.
3. Results
The results of the analysis reflected the broad scope of this research, which covers various value chains 
across distinct agroecological zones in Vietnam and Ghana. Figure 2 showed the distribution of crop-based 
food commodities considered in the reviewed publications. Cocoa was the most frequently studied 
Records iden
tified from
:
Evidensia
 (n = 49)
Duplicate rec
ords remove
d  
(n = 1)
Records remo
ved for oth
er 
r
e
as
on
s (n = 1)*
Studies sc
reened an
d assesse
d for 
eligibili
ty (n = 47
)
Studies ex
cluded:
Criterion 1
 (n = 10)
Criterion 2
 (n = 7)
Criterion 3
 (n = 4)
Studies i
ncluded in the
 systemic
 
literatur
e review
(n = 26)
I
d
e
n
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
S
c
r
e
e
n
i
n
g
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
Figure 1. Publications selection process based on PRISMA 2020 flow diagram for new systematic reviews. *Books were 
excluded, with preference given to scientific articles and reports.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 5

--- PAGE 7 ---
Table 3. Main features of the studies included in the analytical assessment.                     
Reference Country Commodity VSS
Gender 
parity
Labour 
rights
Capacity 
building Yield Costs Income
Market 
access
Value chain 
integration
Child  
labour
Land  
access
Tools & 
equipment
Access  
to credit Biodiversity
Water 
management
Use of  
agrochemicals
Addae- 
Boadu 
et al. 
( 2017 )
Ghana Cocoa RA,UTZ x x
Akrong 
et al. 
( 2023 )
Ghana Mango GlobalGAP x x x
Akrong 
et al. 
( 2022 )
Ghana Mango GlobalGAP x x x
Ankuyi 
et al. 
( 2023 )
Ghana Cocoa RA x x x x x x x x x x
Bandanaa 
et al. 
( 2021 )
Ghana Cocoa RA x x x x x x x x
Bennett 
et al. 
( 2013 )
Ghana Cocoa UTZ x x x x x x x x x x x x x
Brako et al. 
( 2021a )
Ghana Cocoa, palm oil RA,UTZ, 
RSPO
x x
Brako et al. 
( 2021b )
Ghana Cocoa, palm oil RA,UTZ, 
RSPO
x x x x x x x x x
Doanh 
et al. 
( 2018 )
Vietnam Tea NA x
Fenger 
et al. 
( 2017 )
Ghana Cocoa RA x x x x x x x x x x x x
Ho 
et al. 
( 2018 )
Vietnam Coffee 4C,UTZ x x x x x x x x x x
Hung Ahn 
et al. 
( 2019 )
Vietnam Coffee RA,UTZ x x x x x x x x x x x x
Iddrisu 
et al. 
( 2020 )
Ghana Cocoa RA,UTZ x x x
6
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 8 ---
Table 3. (Continued ) 
Reference Country Commodity VSS
Gender 
parity
Labour 
rights
Capacity 
building Yield Costs Income
Market 
access
Value chain 
integration
Child  
labour
Land  
access
Tools & 
equipment
Access  
to credit Biodiversity
Water 
management
Use of  
agrochemicals
Ingram 
et al. 
( 2018 )
Ghana * Cocoa UTZ x x x x x x
Kleemann 
et al. 
( 2014 )
Ghana Pineapple GlobalGAP x x x x x x
Klier and 
Possinger 
( 2012 )
Ghana * Cocoa FI x x x x x x x x x x x
Mauthofer 
and 
Santos 
( 2022 )
Ghana * Cocoa FI x x x x x x x x x x x x x
Nelson 
et al. 
( 2013 )
Ghana Cocoa FI x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
Oosterveer 
et al. 
( 2014 )
Ghana * Palm oil RSPO x x x
Rijn 
et al. 
( 2016 )
Ghana * Banana FI x x x x x x x x x x
Smith 
( 2010 )
Ghana * Banana FI x x x x x x x x x
Stuart 
et al. 
( 2018 )
Vietnam Rice GlobalGAP, 
VietGAP
x x x x x x
Tu 
et al. 
( 2019 )
Vietnam Rice GlobalGAP, 
VietGAP
x x x x
Waarts 
et al. 
( 2015 )
Ghana Cocoa UTZ x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
Waarts 
et al. 
( 2013 )
Ghana Cocoa UTZ x x x
Note: The abbreviations used for the VSSs are as follows: 4 C Association (4 C), Fairtrade International (FI), GlobalGAP, Rainforest Alliance (RA), Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), UTZ, VietGAP and Not Available 
(NA). Since 2018, the UTZ certification programme has been part of the Rainforest Alliance (RA).  
* Seven studies have a wider geographical coverage, encompassing more than one country. 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 7

--- PAGE 9 ---
commodity, appearing in 14 instances, followed by coffee and palm oil, each examined 3 times. Banana, 
mango and rice were studied 2 times each. Pineapple and tea were examined only once.
Figure 3 illustrated the distribution of VSSs across the reviewed publications. Among the considered 
VSSs, UTZ emerged as the most frequently studied, appearing 10 times, followed by RA with 8 instances. FI 
and GlobalGAP were mentioned in 6 and 5 studies respectively, while 4 C and RSPO appeared 3 times each. 
Additionally, VietGAP was investigated twice in the studies. Furthermore, only 1 study did not specify the 
type of certification adopted by farmers.
Figure 2. Number of crop-based food commodities included in the analysis based on the reviewed studies (frequency). 
Note: The total number of observations (28) exceeds the total number of considered publications (26), as two studies focus 
on several agricultural commodities at the same time resulting in their inclusion multiple times in the count.
Figure 3. Distribution of VSSs across the reviewed studies (frequency). Note: The total number of observations (38) 
exceeds the total number of considered publications (26), as seven studies focus on various VSSs resulting in their 
inclusion multiple times in the count. The abbreviations used for the VSSs are as follows: 4 C Association (4 C), Fairtrade 
International (FI), GlobalGAP, Rainforest Alliance (RA), Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), UTZ, VietGAP and Not 
Available (NA).
8
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 10 ---
Table 4 and Figure 4 presented the results of the assessment based on the 26 reviewed publications, 
focusing on the effects of VSSs on 15 social, economic, and environmental indicators constituting the SLF of 
smallholder farmers. Overall, a consistent distribution pattern of positive, neutral, and negative effects was 
observed across the 5 capitals, totalling 128 positive, 57 neutral, and 23 negative outcomes attributed to 
VSSs ( Table 4 ).
The majority of studies focused on the effects of financial capital, resulting in a positive score (44) when 
examining income, yield and cost indicators. Although most studies reported positive outcomes for 
physical capital (14), a considerable number also found neutral effects (8) when assessing indicators related 
to land access, tools and equipment, and access to credit. Human (22) and social (28) capitals were largely 
positive: on the one hand, farmers benefited primarily from enhanced capacity building (14), including the 
provision of training and extension service; on the other hand, social capital improved mainly due to better 
Table 4. Assessed effects of VSSs on the SLF by capital and indicator in Ghana and Vietnam 
(frequency).        
Capital Indicator Positive Neutral Negative Total
Human Gender parity 2 6 1 9
Labour rights 6 4 0 10
Capacity building 14 1 1 16
Subtotal 22 11 2 35
Financial Yield 12 5 3 20
Input cost 8 8 6 22
Income 24 3 0 27
Subtotal 44 16 9 69
Social Access to market 11 2 0 13
Value chain integration 13 1 1 15
Child labour 4 6 0 10
Subtotal 28 9 1 38
Physical Land access 1 3 1 5
Tools & equipment 5 1 0 6
Access to credit 8 4 0 12
Subtotal 14 8 1 23
Natural Biodiversity 4 6 4 14
Water management 5 3 2 10
Use of agrochemicals 11 4 4 19
Subtotal 20 13 10 43
Total 128 57 23 208
Figure 4. VSS effects on the SLF by capital and indicator in Ghana and Vietnam, using a traffic-light visualisation.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 9

--- PAGE 11 ---
value chain integration (13), such as the setting of production groups and cooperatives. Although natural 
capital presented mainly positive outcomes (20), a relatively high number of observations (10) indicated 
some negative effects in terms of biodiversity, water management, and the adoption of agrochemicals at 
the farm level associated with VSSs ( Table 4 and Figure 4 ).
Figure 5 illustrated a comparison of the effects of VSSs on the SLF across social, economic, and 
environmental indicators in Vietnam and Ghana. Overall, VSSs had positive impacts in both countries; 
however, the extent and nature of these effects varied also according to the specific value chain. Ghana 
generally exhibited more substantial positive outcomes across most indicators, particularly in economic and 
social aspects. In Ghana, VSSs significantly increased income levels for local farmers, with 18 positive 
outcomes compared to only 6 in Vietnam. Similarly, the impact of VSSs on agricultural yield was stronger in 
Ghana, where 9 positive outcomes were reported, whereas in Vietnam recorded only 3. In terms of labour 
rights, Ghana saw improvements with 5 positive outcomes, reflecting enhanced working conditions and fair 
labour practices. In contrast, Vietnam showed 1 positive outcome, indicating that improvements in labour 
rights were less pronounced. Additionally, VSSs improved market access in Ghana, with 9 positive 
outcomes, while Vietnam had only 2 positive outcomes in this area. VSSs in Vietnam displayed more 
neutral and variable impacts, suggesting that, while there were benefits, they were less consistent or 
pronounced compared to those observed in Ghana. In Vietnam, capacity building received 3 positive 
outcomes, which was significantly lower than Ghana's 11 positive outcomes, indicating a less extensive 
impact. Similarly, although VSSs in Vietnam made some progress in reducing child labour, with 1 positive 
outcome, in Ghana, VSSs achieved more success with 4 positive results. Moreover, the use of agrochemicals 
had a more negative effect in Vietnam: there were 3 negative outcomes associated with the use of 
agrochemicals in Vietnam, whereas 1 negative outcome in Ghana.
A few indicators, including ‘biodiversity’, ‘tools and equipment’, and ‘land access’, were not covered by 
the reviewed studies conducted in Vietnam. This gap in indicators reflects the thematic focus of the 
available evidence: most of the studies examined financial capital (e.g. yield, income, costs) rather than 
physical and natural capital indicators. Moreover, some assessments and evaluation reports in Vietnam 
were conducted at the farm or cooperative level and did not systematically collect and analyse land tenure 
and biodiversity data.
Figure 5. Comparison of the effects of VSSs on the SLF indicators in Vietnam and Ghana, using a traffic-light 
visualisation. Note: The following indicators - biodiversity, tools and equipment and land access - were not addressed 
by the selected studies on the effects of VSSs in Vietnam.
10
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 12 ---
Figure 6 showed the positive contributions of VSSs to the selected SDGs. SDG 2 ‘Zero hunger’ emerged 
as the most frequently addressed goal, appearing 27 times. This highlights the significant attention given 
by VSSs to increasing yield and income while promoting sustainable farming systems for smallholder 
farmers. SDG 8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’ was addressed 14 times, emphasising the relevant role 
of VSSs as market-based solutions for promoting fair labour conditions, prohibiting child labour and 
enhancing integration for farmers in the value chains. SDG 12 ‘Responsible consumption and production’ 
was found 10 times. VSSs help to meet specific sustainable production standards by reducing the use of 
agrochemicals and enhancing waste management minimising the negative impacts of chemicals on human 
health and the environment. SDG 6 ‘Clean water and sanitation’ was addressed 4 times, highlighting the 
positive effects related to the promotion of more efficient water management practices for the protection 
and the restoration of the agroecosystems. Finally, SDG 5 ‘Gender equality’ and SDG 1 ‘No poverty’ were 
considered 2 and 1 times, respectively, reflecting a lesser but still notable emphasis on promoting the role 
of women in the value chains and improving access to land for poorer farmers through VSSs.
4. Discussion
The findings of the analytical assessment are discussed in the context of a wide range of international 
research, including meta-analyses and qualitative reviews on the impact of VSSs on smallholder farmers' 
livelihoods. In line with the structure of the paper, we begin by outlining the limitations and areas for future 
research to frame the scope and methodological constraints of this study. We then present the main 
findings, offering deeper insights into the effects of VSSs on the SLF indicators, acknowledging both 
promises and trade-offs, and conclude with targeted policy recommendations.
Figure 6. Main contributions of VSSs to the selected SDGs (frequency). Note: The total number of observations (58) 
exceeds the total number of considered publications (26), as a VSS may address several SDGs simultaneously resulting in 
their inclusion multiple times in the count.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 11

--- PAGE 13 ---
4.1.  Limitations of the study and areas for future research
This study did not account for which farmer-level variables, such as age, education, or farm size, are associated 
with success in certification schemes. Although these factors are relevant to SLF outcomes and merit further 
investigation, they fall outside the primary scope of this systematic review. Moreover, the synthesis of results 
relies on empirical studies and is subject to several methodological constraints. Many reviewed studies 
compared certified and non-certified farmers who also differed in market context, cooperative membership, 
and geographical location, reducing the comparability of findings. Most studies focused on farm-level outcomes 
and paid limited attention to institutional and supply chain factors, including the roles of cooperatives, NGOs, 
and private companies in organising and providing certification schemes. Selection bias into certification, often 
linked to farmer characteristics, resource access, and external support, was seldom addressed in the reviewed 
studies. Furthermore, indicator coverage was uneven across countries (e.g. in Vietnam, biodiversity, tools and 
equipment, and land access were not reported), which should be considered when interpreting the results. 
Importantly, this review also highlighted a significant gap concerning youth participation in VSSs. Only a few 
studies specifically analysed how the constraints faced by young people, such as limited access to land, 
restricted control over productive assets, and diverse livelihood aspirations, influenced the adoption of 
certification (Abukari et al., 2022 ; Mabe et al., 2021 ).
Building on the above limitations and constraints, priority areas for future research are outlined below:
• Multi-certification effects: examine how simultaneous participation in more than one sustainability scheme 
shapes livelihood outcomes, identifying the marginal contribution of each VSS (e.g. matched single vs multi 
certified comparisons, stepwise adoption panels) and account for sequencing and duration of certification.  
• Long-term evidence and indicators: undertake longitudinal research with stronger biodiversity monitoring 
aligned with SDG 15 ‘Life on Land’ to assess environmental effects, including biodiversity status and 
landscape-level outcomes (e.g. species diversity, habitat preservation, abundance of pollinators).  
• Impact studies: prioritise rigorous evaluation, including experimental and quasi-experimental approaches, 
and explicitly account for relevant variables (e.g. gender, age) and context-specific factors (e.g. availability of 
extension services, market distance) when selecting factual and counterfactual groups.  
• Comparative analysis: undertake comparative cross-country studies to assess how institutional settings, 
support services, and market structures mediate VSS effects across commodities and contexts, identify -
ing best practices and lessons learned.  
• Digital tools: investigate the role of apps, blockchain, and e-commerce in enhancing traceability and 
market access to better align VSSs with livelihood outcomes assessed through the SLF.  
• Youth involvement: examine how certification schemes relate to the opportunities, motivations, and 
structural barriers encountered by rural youth, an increasingly relevant issue given demographic trends 
and the ageing farming population in both Ghana and Vietnam.
4.2.  Economic and social dimensions
The following subsections explore key economic and social outcomes resulting from the adoption of VSSs by 
smallholder farmers. First, we provide a comparative synthesis of VSS effects, highlighting scheme-specific 
strengths, limitations, and common patterns. Second, we examine the effects of VSSs on income and yields, 
highlighting differences between certified and non-certified farmers. Third, we present the associated production 
costs, particularly those concerning inputs, labour and mechanisation. Fourth, we discuss the importance of 
capacity-building initiatives and their multiple benefits. Fifth, we highlight the spillover benefits generated by the 
introduction of VSSs in the commodity value chain. Finally, we analyse the market dynamics that shape farmers’ 
ability to benefit from VSS adoption, including quasi-mandatory certification requirements in export-oriented 
commodity sectors and the specific market constraints affecting the rice value chain in Vietnam.
4.2.1.  Effects across VSSs
The reviewed studies revealed both heterogeneity and some common patterns in their effects on the 
selected SLF indicators across certification schemes, reflecting distinct objectives, operational models, and 
context-specific factors influencing performance.
12
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 14 ---
Rainforest Alliance (RA) and UTZ primarily emphasised environmental stewardship and sustainable 
agricultural practices, with reported improvements in soil and water management, integrated pest man -
agement (IPM), and training in sustainable techniques (Bandanaa et al., 2021 ; Fenger et al., 2017 ). However, 
compliance and audit requirements increased costs for smallholder farmers, and environmental gains were 
sometimes limited where conventional practices persisted and enforcement of environmental law was 
weak (Bandanaa et al., 2021 ; Ingram et al., 2018 ).
Fairtrade International (FI), especially in Ghana’s cocoa and banana sectors, was associated with stronger 
social benefits, including improved labour conditions, minimum price guarantees, and enhanced organisa -
tional capacity through cooperative membership (Nelson et al., 2013 ; Rijn et al., 2016 ). At the same time, FI 
outcomes depended on the size and pass-through of price premiums and on the local governance of 
producer organisations; in some contexts, benefits to individual farmers were constrained by how collective 
funds were allocated (Nelson et al., 2013 ; Rijn et al., 2016 ).
GlobalGAP focused on food safety, traceability, and quality assurance, facilitating access to high-value 
markets but showing mixed livelihood effects once compliance costs were accounted for (Akrong et al., 
2022 ; Stuart et al., 2018 ). Producers often needed investments in infrastructure, such as packhouses, cold 
storage facilities, and protective equipment, as well as administrative procedures and record keeping. These 
expenses could be prohibitive for smallholder farmers (Kleemann et al., 2014 ; Akrong et al., 2022 ).
4 C Association (4 C) and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) showed similar patterns. 4 C 
certification in coffee production promoted key sustainability principles (e.g. prohibition of child labour, 
safe pesticide handling, soil and water conservation, and proper waste management) and greater supply 
chain transparency, but its entry-level requirements and farmers’ limited compliance with standard criteria 
often resulted in modest socioeconomic improvements (Kuit et al., 2016 ). RSPO initiatives in palm oil aimed 
to reduce deforestation risks and improve labour practices; nonetheless, certification costs and consistent 
monitoring remained challenges, with mixed evidence on biodiversity and food security (Brako et al., 2021a ; 
Oosterveer et al., 2014 ).
VietGAP, which is led by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) in Vietnam, 
promoted better production planning and input management, yet improvements in income and bio -
diversity were limited, especially due to weak demand for certified products at the national level (Demont & 
Rutsaert, 2017 ; Stuart et al., 2018 ; Tu et al., 2019 ). Similar to GlobalGAP, compliance with VietGAP often 
required investments in basic farm infrastructure, such as storage, sanitation, and record keeping, as well as 
higher-quality inputs that many farmers could not afford.
4.2.2.  Income and yields
The adoption of VSSs in crop-based food commodities boosted productivity and income levels among 
smallholder farmers in Ghana and Vietnam (Brako et al., 2021a ; Doanh et al., 2018 ). Brako et al. ( 2021a ) 
found that certified cocoa farmers exhibited substantially higher average total farm output (770 kg) and 
yield (276 kg/ha) compared to uncertified farmers. Likewise, certified oil palm growers demonstrated 
superior total output (16.90 tons) and yield (4.18 tons/ha), with statistically significant differences observed 
in total output compared to their uncertified counterparts (Brako et al., 2021a ). Fenger et al. ( 2017 ) pointed 
out that certified cocoa farmers earned significantly higher gross income compared to conventional 
farmers, especially considering the price premium received by the former. This is the case of cocoa 
production in Ghana, where certification not only incentivized farmers to adopt sustainable cocoa farming 
practices but also enabled them to benefit from price premium, which is a crucial incentive for farmers to 
engage in sustainable value chains (Addae-Boadu et al., 2017 ; Ingram et al., 2018 ). According to Akrong 
et al. ( 2022 ), certified mango producers were also more likely to sell to industrial processors and the export 
market rather than to local traders, increasing the quantity sold to high-value markets by 12% for certified 
farmers. These results were also confirmed by Nelson et al. ( 2013 ) and Waarts et al. ( 2013 ), certified farmers 
reported significantly more improvements in product quality and enhanced market access, with multi -
national companies buying increasing quantities of cocoa beans. Finally, as highlighted by Kleemann et al. 
( 2014 ), the transition from conventional to certified organic production offers small-scale farmers the 
opportunity to access niche markets in developed countries, resulting in higher returns on their 
investments.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 13

--- PAGE 15 ---
4.2.3.  Total costs
As emphasised by Rietberg and Slingerland ( 2016 ) and Ingram et al. ( 2018 ), certified farmers experienced a 
substantial increase in total production expenses due to the significant rise in labour costs per hectare, 
especially when adopting organic production systems, and additional expenses related to monitoring, 
audits and administrative costs. Compliance with VSSs often entailed higher expenditures on quality inputs, 
such as fertilisers, seeds, and agrochemicals, which have experienced sharp price increases in recent years 
(OECD-FAO, 2024 ). In addition, rising energy prices, higher transport costs, and port disruptions associated 
with recent international crises (e.g. the Russia–Ukraine war) have further increased input-related expenses, 
with pronounced effects in developing countries (Leconte-Demarsy & Rice, 2025 ).
Kleemann et al. ( 2014 ) pointed out the importance of determining the total profitability of adopting 
VSSs, which is determined by several market factors: (i) the size and the sustainability of the premium over 
time; (ii) the percentage of the price premium that farmers receive; and (iii) the total cost of the adopted 
farming method. Ingram et al. ( 2018 ), Kuit et al. ( 2016 ), Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ), Waarts et al. ( 2015 ) 
and Iddrisu et al. ( 2020 ) highlighted that, while the overall performance of VSS adoption may appear mixed 
and modest compared to non-certified farmers, a closer examination revealed significant productivity and 
income increases among certified farmers who received more comprehensive support services, including 
training, financial services, and farm inputs (e.g. fertilisers, agrochemicals and protective equipment). 
Notably, the comparative study of Bordey et al. ( 2016 ) found that certified farmers in the Mekong Delta 
region were raising their productivity, largely attributed to intensive mechanisation, especially in the 
application of seeds, fertilisers and pesticides. Stuart et al. ( 2018 ) suggested that the ongoing mechanisa -
tion process in Vietnam might reduce dependency on farmer labour, which is becoming scarce in rural 
areas, while also decreasing total production expenses. Therefore, the availability and the price of produc -
tion inputs, as well as the level of mechanisation are relevant factors when assessing the overall costs 
associated with VSSs at the field level.
4.2.4.  Capacity-building initiatives
Numerous studies highlighted the significant role of capacity building, such as mandatory training programmes, 
for farmers adhering to sustainability standards (Smith, 2010 ; Waarts et al., 2013 ). Waarts et al. ( 2013 ) noted that 
certified farmers were overall satisfied with the training provisions, as they improved social interactions, 
facilitated knowledge exchange, and helped solve common issues among farmers. Similarly, Mauthofer and 
Santos ( 2022 ) found that, despite labour-intensive conditions, farmers highly valued capacity-building provisions 
by VSS programmes, which also include training on farm management and work safety. These trainings led to 
increased production, better record-keeping, and improved savings practices (Mauthofer & Santos, 2022 ).
According to Bennett et al. ( 2013 ), certified farmers benefitting from capacity building initiatives demon -
strated a high level of awareness regarding child labour regulations and the importance of education for 
children. On the one hand, Waarts et al. ( 2013 ) and Bandanaa et al. ( 2021 ) observed that in the cocoa value 
chain, children often assist their parents with harvesting, pod breaking, weeding, fertilising and transporting; on 
the other hand, Bennett et al. ( 2013 ) found that fewer children worked on certified farms, which also had lower 
injury rates compared to non-certified farms with higher child involvement in farming activities. In line with 
these results, Waarts et al. ( 2015 ) noted that certified farms had fewer children under 14 years old engaging in 
hazardous activities compared to uncertified farms and exhibited higher school enrolment rates. This finding 
was also confirmed by Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ), who reported improved access to primary education in 
cocoa communities adopting VSS schemes, with 75% to 85% of children successfully completing primary 
education. As a consequence, capacity-building initiatives are key components of VSS schemes, supporting 
smallholder farming livelihoods by aiming not only to increase productivity but also to enhance social well- 
being, health, and fair labour practices among smallholder farmers.
4.2.5.  Spillover effects
VSS programmes facilitated the emergence of more professional farmer associations, fostered competition 
and extension services and enabled market channels for certified products, while positioning farmers within 
global value chains (GVCs) (Furumo & Lambin, 2021 ; Ponte, 2019 ). This impact was particularly evident in a 
study by Ingram et al. ( 2018 ) in Ghana, which highlighted the crucial role of VSSs in rapidly scaling up 
sustainable cocoa production and providing smallholder farmers with access to lucrative markets in the EU 
14
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 16 ---
and North America. According to Akrong et al. ( 2022 ) and Kleemann et al. ( 2014 ), certification positively 
impacted the quantity sold to high-value markets and increased the income of smallholder mango and 
pineapple farmers by about 20%. Furthermore, Smith ( 2010 ) and Ingram et al. ( 2018 ) observed that VSSs 
generated spillover effects, such as the exchange of knowledge and practices, which also benefited non- 
certified farmers in the production area.
4.2.6.  Market dynamics
An important cross-cutting finding emerging from this review is that, in several export-driven value chains, 
certification increasingly functions as an institutionalised governance mechanism rather than a purely 
voluntary tool. For example, in the cocoa and coffee value chains, producers often encounter implicit 
pressures to adopt certification because it serves as a de facto entry requirement for international buyers 
(Grassnick et al., 2021 ). This quasi-mandatory character of VSSs has important implications for farmers’ 
bargaining power and livelihood strategies, reinforcing the need to interpret certification not only as a 
sustainability instrument but also as a form of market governance that shapes the inclusion and exclusion 
of smallholder farmers within global value chains (Bennett, 2017 ; Ponte, 2019 ).
These power dynamics along the value chains intersect with several market challenges that affect the potential 
benefits of adhering to voluntary standards, particularly in the context of the rice value chain in Vietnam. As 
emphasised by Stuart et al. ( 2018 ), Vietnamese farmers face significant challenges such as the lack of established 
channels for certified rice. Additionally, Demont and Rutsaert ( 2017 ) identified other limitations: i) poor linkages 
among stakeholders; ii) the absence of a national and international brand reputation, as Vietnam primarily trades 
low-quality rice; and iii) the high use of pesticides to manage insect pests and plant diseases, even among farmers 
adopting VSSs. These constraints together with other market asymmetries, such as information and infrastructure 
gaps, hinder the adoption and scaling of VSSs in the rice value chain in Vietnam (Stuart et al., 2018 ).
4.3.  Environmental dimension
The ensuing subsections examine relevant environmental aspects of VSS adoption by smallholder farmers. 
First, we assess how VSSs promote sustainable practices, such as IPM and water conservation techniques. 
Next, we evaluate the challenges in fully implementing these practices, including limited financial resources 
and inadequate training. Finally, we address the impact on biodiversity and the preference for monocrop -
ping systems within certain VSS schemes.
4.3.1.  Adoption of sustainable practices
Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ) and Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ) found that certified cocoa farmers in Ghana 
show a greater understanding and awareness of environmental issues due to trainings on IPM and soil 
improvement practices (e.g. use of compost and manure), which also enhance yield. Fenger et al. ( 2017 ) 
revealed that certified cocoa farmers reduced the frequency of burning over a 5-year period to comply with 
specific VSS objectives. Moreover, they implemented measures such as establishing buffer zones along farm 
boundaries and near rivers and other water bodies to minimise agrochemical leaching and contamination 
(Fenger et al., 2017 ). According to Stuart et al. ( 2018 ), certified farmers embraced water-saving techniques 
like alternate wetting and drying (AWD) to optimise irrigation times and reduce water consumption in rice 
cultivation. Akrong et al. ( 2023 ) observed that certified mango farmers in Ghana reduced their reliance on 
inorganic fertilisers, pesticides and herbicides, opting instead for indigenous methods of weed control. 
Moreover, farmers adhering to organic standards, while reducing their dependency on chemical inputs, 
increase the use of natural fertilisers and recycle nutrients, contributing to improved soil health and 
enhanced water retention in crop fields. Waarts et al. ( 2015 ) noticed also improved pesticides handling 
among certified farmers, observing: i) better health and safety practices, such as proper chemical waste 
disposal; ii) increased adoption of measures to reduce water contamination; and iii) enhanced use of 
personal protective equipment (PPE). In addition, Bennett and Franzel ( 2013 ) found that eliminating 
hazardous chemicals and promoting the use of PPE significantly reduced injury rate among certified 
producers. However, Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ) emphasised that, while training on the use of fertilisers 
and chemicals was crucial for creating a safer work environment, farmers could not afford to buy 
expensive PPE.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 15

--- PAGE 17 ---
4.3.2.  Barriers to implementation of sustainable techniques
According to Waarts et al. ( 2015 ), many certified farmers did not fully adopt recommended sustainable practices 
due to several reasons: i) budget constraints; ii) lack of tools and equipment; iii) insufficient training provisions 
over time. Consequently, some certified farmers reported only small improvements in environmental indicators, 
whereas non-certified farmers observed a deterioration in environmental performance in the long time (Nelson 
et al., 2013 ). As noted by Smith ( 2010 ) banana certified farmers struggle to fully apply sustainable farming 
techniques until they see proof of their efficacy from early adopters, while Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ) highlighted 
that 10% of farmers in the cocoa plantations were not landowners, and thus did not benefit from access to 
training programmes, making them unable to apply newly learned methods. Smith ( 2010 ) observed a significant 
decline in the use of sustainable practices over time, even among certified banana farmers. This decline also 
suggested that other factors (e.g. increased international demand for coca) might have conflicted with the 
adoption of sustainable practices and contributed to the further adoption of detrimental practices (e.g. 
deforestation, slash and burn). Furthermore, Smith ( 2010 ) pointed out that the increased environmental 
requirements promoted by VSSs sometimes lacked sufficient technical guidance, which posed challenges for 
farmers in fully implementing these environmental standards.
Even under VSSs, the high use of inputs presented significant challenges in Vietnam. Ho et al. ( 2018 ) and 
Hung Anh et al. (2019) highlighted that certified coffee production is often based on the excessive use of 
chemical and water inputs. Similarly, Tu et al. ( 2019 ) also noted that certified rice farmers in Vietnam's 
Mekong Delta (MKD) often use inputs, like certified seeds, inefficiently, contributing to both poor economic 
and environmental indicators. High agrochemical dependence not only reduced biodiversity and degraded 
water quality and soil fertility but also heightened farmers’ exposure to market volatility. As fertiliser and 
pesticide prices transmit external shocks (e.g. trade tariffs and restrictions), they erode margins and liquidity 
and increase the risk of indebtedness for farmers (Régnier et al., 2025 ).
Despite the availability of more ecologically efficient traditional farming techniques, such as floating rice, 
and local rice varieties that are more resilient to climate change effects (e.g. drought and floods), farmers 
often perceive these practices as technically less effective than those promoted by private and public 
extension services (Tu et al., 2019 ).
4.3.3.  Biodiversity
Smith ( 2010 ) pointed out that VSSs do not address issues associated with monocropping systems, which 
negatively impact ecosystems and natural resources by reducing biodiversity and crop resistance to pests 
and diseases. This, in turn, led to more frequent chemical treatments in banana plantations, depleting soil 
fertility and reducing yields in the long run (Smith, 2010 ). Similarly, Oosterveer et al. ( 2014 ) reported that 
the oil palm varieties adopted by VSSs were high-yielding, rather than local cultivars, which were preferred 
by the industry for their high productivity and standardised characteristics, thereby reducing oil palm 
biodiversity at the field level and affecting local dietary patterns. Consistently, Wätzold et al. ( 2025 ) 
observed that VSSs in Ghana's cocoa sector provided limited ecological benefits, showing no significant 
impact on biodiversity indicators like vegetation structure and animal diversity. Likewise, prior studies note 
that many certification schemes lack robust biodiversity monitoring frameworks and consistent indicators, 
which constrains the ability to detect ecological change over time (Castka et al., 2016 ; Potts et al., 2016 ).
4.4.  Challenges and trade-offs
The following subsections aim to explore how VSS adoption might exacerbate existing disparities among 
farmers, focusing on: i) gender inequalities, ii) the distribution of price premiums, and iii) differences 
between small and large landholders.
4.4.1.  Women involvement in VSSs
According to Smith ( 2010 ), while no wage differences were found between men and women performing the 
same duties on banana plantations, women were often assigned to lower-level tasks, negatively impacting their 
overall earnings. A study by Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ) indicated that female cocoa farmers under VSSs 
remained more vulnerable and marginalised compared to their male counterparts. Nelson et al. ( 2013 ) observed 
that men generally dominated decision-making around income control, with no significant changes in intra- 
16
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 18 ---
household dynamics even after the adoption of VSSs. Cultural practices and norms often restricted women's 
access to farmland and decision-making, as land was typically inherited by males within families (Klier and 
Possinger, 2015; Waarts et al., 2015 ). Additionally, women who did inherit land typically received smaller plots, 
limiting their yields and further reducing their income (Klier & Possinger, 2012 ).
Although Nelson et al. ( 2013 ) reported an increase in women’s membership in certified cocoa organisa -
tions from 28% in 2008 to 32.13% in early 2013, Rijn et al. ( 2016 ) noted that women’s interests were often 
inadequately represented within unions and committees, with very few women holding supervisory 
positions. Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ) highlighted that systemic issues persist and that VSSs' efforts to 
promote gender equality were insufficient to overcome common stigmas. Gender-discriminatory practices 
were deeply rooted in society (e.g. land inheritance rules favouring men), requiring targeted strategies to 
improve representation and participation in VSSs (Mauthofer & Santos, 2022 ). Younger rural women, 
particularly those without secure land rights, encountered increasingly complex barriers to accessing 
training, becoming members of cooperatives, and participating in decision-making (Msosa, 2022 ). These 
limitations hindered the potential of sustainability certification to promote meaningful women’s empow -
erment within agricultural value chains. These interconnected aspects reflected broader gender constraints 
present in many developing countries (Chiputwa et al., 2021 ; Lloyd, 2024 ).
4.4.2.  Price premium
The amount and utilisation of price premiums from VSSs have been pivotal in enhancing SLF and supporting 
project initiatives for the entire farming community (Snider et al., 2017 ). However, the effectiveness and equitable 
distribution of price premiums have sparked considerable debate in the literature (Boonaert & Maertens, 2023 ).
According to Rijn et al. ( 2016 ), the cocoa price premium in Ghana, approximately USD 200 per tonne, 
provided a significant financial boost to local economies by funding initiatives such as community projects 
and strengthening farmers' organisations. Similarly, Nelson et al. ( 2013 ) observed that while price premium 
funds were invested in essential community infrastructure, including boreholes, schools, and healthcare 
facilities, the benefits did not always effectively trickle down to individual farmers.
Smith ( 2010 ) reported that the allocation of premiums occasionally caused conflict due to perceived 
discrimination, as workers often viewed these premiums as charitable transfers rather than benefits earned 
from their labour activities. Consequently, this negative perception reduced the intended economic 
empowerment effect of the price premiums (Smith, 2010 ). According to Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ), farmers 
were sometimes unaware of how VSSs operate, including how the price premium is distributed and used. 
As a result, this lack of awareness limited farmers' participation in decision-making and reduced their sense 
of ownership over community projects funded by the price premiums (Jena et al., 2012 ).
4.4.3.  Small vs large farmers
Akrong et al. ( 2022 ) found that farmers with higher household incomes and secure land access were more 
likely to participate in certification schemes, as they could afford the monitoring, audits, and administrative 
costs associated with VSSs. In contrast, farmers with lower incomes or those relying on off-farm activities 
and insecure assets were less likely to comply with VSS initiatives (Akrong et al., 2022 ). Similarly, Kleemann 
et al. ( 2014 ) emphasised that the costs of adhering to VSS schemes in the pineapple value chain, along with 
the required investments, were prohibitive for smallholder farmers, particularly those with limited access to 
credit. Fenger et al. ( 2017 ) highlighted the need to provide inputs and financial services, such as savings 
and insurance services, through VSSs and government institutions to support poorer farmers. While VSSs 
can lead to productivity improvements and encourage the adoption of new technologies, they may favour 
larger farmers, potentially widening the gap between them and smaller farmers and intensifying existing 
inequalities and vulnerabilities (Kleemann et al., 2014 ).
4.5.  Policy recommendations
As suggested by Ingram et al. ( 2018 ) and Eyhorn et al. ( 2019 ), a comprehensive and holistic transformation 
of the agri-food systems is highly advisable to move towards sustainability. The following policy recom -
mendations should be framed within the context of enhanced partnerships among relevant stakeholders to 
strengthen the role of VSSs in advancing the SDGs agenda. Therefore, we identify specific areas for policy 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 17

--- PAGE 19 ---
interventions that governments, development agencies, and multistakeholder initiatives should implement 
to make VSSs fully beneficial for smallholder farmers while promoting transformative food systems.
4.5.1.  Promoting participatory and bottom-up extension models
Based on the studies conducted by Ho et al. ( 2018 ) and Tu et al. ( 2019 ), the availability of extension services 
provided by local governments was negatively associated with the efficiency levels of coffee and rice 
production in Vietnam. Barham and Weber ( 2012 ) and Ho et al. ( 2018 ) highlighted that government 
extension services mainly focus on conventional approach aimed at increasing yields in the short-term, 
rather than addressing environmental challenges, which require a long-term perspective. Moreover, 
Vietnamese farmers often had unrestricted access to agrochemicals and applied them under the guidance 
of input sellers, which contributed to the over-application of such products (Tu et al., 2019 ). Similarly, 
farmers participating in ‘good agricultural practices’ programmes in Vietnam must use certified seeds, 
which are more expensive and require additional inputs (e.g. water), as well as greater technical and 
financial resources (Okello et al., 2017 ). As suggested by Gliessman ( 2015 ), extension services aimed to 
increase sustainability should pay more attention to the variability that exists within and between 
agroecosystems, including bio-physical, social and economic factors. In this regard, agroecological 
approaches promoted by VSS schemes can serve as a strategy for transitioning to sustainable farming 
(Biovision, 2024 ). These approaches rely on common principles, such as increasing diversity, recycling 
nutrients and energy, and enhancing soil organic matter. However, they need to be adapted to site-specific 
conditions through collaborative co-creation between farmers and technical advisers, rather than through a 
prescriptive top-down approach (Barrios et al., 2020 ; Wezel et al., 2020 ).
Strengthening the effectiveness of VSS implementation requires bottom-up and horizontal exchanges 
that empower farmers to co-design and adapt sustainability practices. Governments could therefore 
promote participatory extension models, in which farmer field schools and community organisations jointly 
develop and test context-appropriate solutions (Friis-Hansen & Duveskog, 2012 ). For example, in Vietnam’s 
MKD and Ghana’s cocoa regions, peer-to-peer learning and farmer-led experimentation on soil fertility 
management, water-saving irrigation, and IPM have enhanced both adoption and farmers’ ownership of 
new practices (Ehiakpor et al., 2021 ; Leippert et al., 2020 ). Development agencies could further facilitate 
multi-stakeholder platforms linking producer organisations, universities, NGOs, and private buyers to adapt 
certification requirements to local contexts. For instance, partnerships between research institutes and 
certification bodies could co-develop locally validated sustainability indicators and disseminate good 
practices through peer-exchange networks linking certified and non-certified farmers (Lee et al., 2012 ; 
FAO, 2014 ). Financial incentives, such as matching grants, microfinance, and preferential credit lines, could 
support cooperative-led training and the transition to agroecological practices that complement existing 
certification schemes (FAO, 2022 ; WB, 2019 ).
4.5.2.  Increasing access to land capital
Nelson et al. ( 2013 ) highlighted that land access posed a significant structural challenge for smallholder 
farmers when adhering to VSS schemes. Akrong et al. ( 2023 ) emphasised that land ownership significantly 
affects compliance with VSS standards, noting that farmers who own their land are twice as likely to 
perform better on environmental indicators compared to those without land ownership. Moreover, Brako 
et al. ( 2021b ) observed that land tenure in Ghana was predominantly male-dominated, with men typically 
serving as household heads and landowners. This land tenure system particularly affected cocoa and oil 
palm production, excluding women from more profitable value chains due to their limited access to larger 
landholdings (Brako et al., 2021b ). Bennett and Franzel ( 2013 ) also pointed out that fragmented land parcel 
arrangements and lack of formal land titles, especially for indigenous groups, negatively affect famers 
adoption of VSSs, highlighting the need for reform in land tenure systems in developing countries. In line 
with Bennett and Franzel ( 2013 ), Tu et al. ( 2019 ) and van Vliet et al. ( 2021 ) discussed the necessity for 
structural land reforms, including increasing land sizes to enhance farm efficiency. Tu et al. ( 2019 ) high -
lighted that the Vietnamese Land Law, which limited farm sizes to 3 hectares per household, hinders the 
economic and environmental performance of smallholder farmers. As suggested by the same authors, 
policy changes that permit access to larger farm sizes could also facilitate the adoption of technological 
innovations and the mechanisation process, thereby enhancing productivity, which is often low among 
18
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 20 ---
smallholder farmers (Tu et al., 2019 ). In this regard, national and local governments, along with relevant 
stakeholders in the value chain, should collaborate to improve smallholder farmers' access to land while 
ensuring equitable land rights for women.
4.5.3.  Fostering food security
Although this study does not directly address food security, the effects of VSSs on food availability and 
nutrition patterns remain widely debated in the literature, with no clear consensus (Meemken et al., 2017 ). 
Oosterveer et al. ( 2014 ) reported that the Government of Mozambique introduced a national legal 
framework for sustainable crop-based biofuel production to address food security gaps in certification 
schemes. This framework requires international companies operating in the country to supply a portion of 
their production domestically and meet specific food security indicators (Schut et al., 2014 ). Similarly, 
policies that promote agrobiodiversity in Ghana and Vietnam could encourage private companies and 
farmers to diversify their marketable products and adopt sustainable agricultural practices, such as 
intercropping and integrated rice-fish system, moving beyond the conventional systems based on mono -
cropping (Oosterveer et al., 2014 ). Finally, as highlighted by Tu et al. ( 2019 ), policies at various levels should 
be targeted and designed to address multiple sustainability indicators simultaneously.
4.5.4.  Boosting partnerships and legal requirements
According to Ponte ( 2019 ), governments should ensure the effective implementation of sustainability 
standards in food commodity value chains by creating legally binding commitments (e.g. mandatory 
sustainability reports) and fostering partnerships with various stakeholders, such as firms, producer 
associations, and NGOs. In this regard, Akrong et al. ( 2022 ) found that the Government of Ghana partnered 
with multinational firms and organisations to improve certification among small-scale farmers through 
training and capacity development programmes in the mango sector. In Vietnam, the Cooperative Law of 
1997, along with its subsequent revisions, aimed to establish a national legal framework to promote the 
development and growth of commercial agricultural cooperatives (Tu et al., 2019 ). Nonetheless, the 
effectiveness of these governmental initiatives depends on several key factors, including local administra -
tive support and farmer participation (Cox & Le, 2014 ). Boshoven et al. ( 2021 ) and zu Ermgassen et al. ( 2022 ) 
emphasised that governments should also promote measures, such as facilitating traceability and transpar -
ency requirements, setting minimum standards for fair labour conditions, and implementing region-specific 
sourcing strategies for certified products to enhance accountability and promote sustainable practices 
across commodity value chains.
4.5.5.  Strengthening marketing collaborations
According to Padhiary and Roy ( 2025 ), the expansion of certified products’ global outreach depends on 
collaborative marketing strategies that foster stronger connections between international buyers and local 
producer organisations. Collaborative marketing in agriculture, defined as cooperation among farmers, 
marketers, distributors, and consumers working toward shared goals, enables resource sharing, collective 
branding, and enhanced bargaining power, which are vital for smallholders operating under VSSs (Grabs & 
Carodenuto, 2021 ; Schoneveld, 2022 ). In addition, farmer cooperatives and public-private partnerships can 
develop joint marketing platforms to showcase certified products through e-commerce channels and 
sustainable branding initiatives (Padhiary & Roy, 2025 ). The use of digital marketing tools, such as online 
marketplaces, traceability apps, and social media can increase producers’ visibility and consumer engage -
ment, while appealing to growing demand for ethical products (Ravi & Rajasekaran, 2023 ). Similarly, 
authentic storytelling that highlights product origin, community values, and sustainability commitments 
helps build consumer trust and long-term brand loyalty (Yueh & Zheng, 2019 ).
Collaborative approaches also support sustainable supply chains, where transparent relationships 
among producers, retailers, and consumers ensure product authenticity and equitable benefit sharing 
(Flora & Bregendahl, 2012 ). As emphasised by Padhiary and Roy ( 2025 ), partnerships with local distributors 
and retailers in target markets provide critical market intelligence and facilitate compliance with import 
regulations, enhancing smallholders’ competitiveness in global trade. By developing collaborative market -
ing strategies, VSSs can strengthen the competitiveness of certified products while improving farmers’ 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 19

--- PAGE 21 ---
incomes, preserving local identity, environmental integrity, and consumer trust in sustainable and ethical 
products (Bennett, 2021 ).
4.5.6. Leveraging VSSs contribution to the SDGs
It is widely acknowledged that there is significant alignment between VSSs and the SDGs, with clear 
potential for a mutually supportive relationship, making VSSs valuable tools for governments as well 
(Akrong et al., 2022 ; Kosolapova et al., 2023 ). In line with Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ), we found that the three 
SDGs most widely addressed by VSSs are SDG 2, 8 and 12. Although VSSs are oriented towards the 
sustainability of value chains, some of the impacts on farmers, producer organisations and local communi -
ties may not be explicitly linked to SDG targets but can create enabling conditions for their achievement 
(Bissinger et al., 2020 ). Additionally, VSSs can support governments by collecting disaggregated data to 
understand the situation of vulnerable groups, such as women and indigenous minorities, and by reporting 
on SDG progress through sharing impact data (Kosolapova et al., 2023 ). With the aim of leveraging VSSs’ 
contribution to the achievement of the SDGs, the recommendations of this study are twofold: i) better align 
the socioeconomic and environmental objectives of different VSSs with the SDG indicators; ii) promote and 
develop an independent monitoring and evaluation system to assess the actual impacts of VSS initiatives in 
the agricultural sector.
5. Conclusions
The adoption of the SLF provides a comprehensive understanding of the significant effects of VSSs on the 
livelihoods of Ghanaian and Vietnamese smallholder farmers producing crop-based food commodities for 
international markets. VSSs can reduce smallholders' production constraints, expand market opportunities, 
and enhance farmers' livelihoods by addressing various forms of capital - human, financial, social, physical 
and natural - to varying extents. They are effective market-based tools for promoting sustainability across 
agricultural commodity value chains, although not without limitations. Despite their generally positive 
effects, the systematic review highlights the context-specific nature of VSS impacts, which differ across 
value chains and between countries.
On the one hand, VSSs need to better align their interventions with the social and economic characteristics of 
farmers while considering the site-specific and biophysical contexts in which they operate. This involves tailoring 
service packages to farmers' needs and addressing critical issues, such as improving input management (e.g. 
pesticides, certified seeds, and water), implementing innovative initiatives to increase women's participation in 
value chains, eliminating persistent child labour practices, and establishing robust monitoring and reporting 
systems. It is also essential to enhance the gender and youth sensitivity of certification systems to ensure that 
VSSs contribute to more inclusive and equitable rural development outcomes. Additionally, VSSs should avoid 
encouraging over-specialisation and its associated risks, such as commodity price volatility and climate change 
effects, by promoting crop diversification and integrated farming approaches.
On the other hand, governments should focus on overcoming structural barriers, such as insecure land rights, 
poor market infrastructure (e.g. storage and market facilities) and limited access to credit for smallholder 
farmers. These challenges underscore the need for investments in Ghana and Vietnam to close sustainability 
gaps, develop policies that address market constraints for certified products, improve extension services, 
enhance stakeholder integration and coordination in the value chain, and raise sustainability standards.
As outlined in SDG 17, revitalising global partnerships for sustainable development is essential. This 
should not only strengthen public-private partnerships but also foster broader societal collaboration among 
producers, consumers, researchers, and civil society organisations to create a foundation for a meaningful 
transition to sustainable food systems.
Acknowledgements
The authors thank two anonymous reviewers who provided excellent feedback to improve the quality of 
this manuscript. This research was conducted within the framework of the Trade4Sustainable Development 
project (https://www.trade4sd.eu/).
20
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 22 ---
Author contributions
CRediT: Raffaele D’Annolfo: Conceptualisation, Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Methodology, 
Software, Validation, Visualisation, Writing—original draft, Writing—review & editing. Federica Demaria: 
Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Resources, Software, 
Validation, Visualisation, Writing—original draft, Writing—review & editing.
Disclosure statement
No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).
Funding
No funding was received to support this article.
ORCID 
Raffaele D’Annolfo 
 0000-0002-3002-210X 
Federica Demaria 
 0000-0002-1718-1894
Data availability statement
Supplemental data for this paper can be accessed at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17670302.
References
Abukari, A. T., Zakaria, A., & Azumah, S. B. ( 2022 ). Gender-based participation in income generating activities in cocoa growing 
communities. The role of youth training programs. Heliyon, 8(2). e08880. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e08880
Addae-Boadu, S., Aikins, S., & Abu Safian, A. ( 2017 ). The cocoa certification program and its effect on sustainable cocoa 
production in Ghana: a study in upper denkyira west district. Journal of Environment and Earth Science, 7(4), 108–116.
Akrong, R., Akorsu, A. D., Jha, P., & Agyenim, J. B. ( 2022 ). Assessing the trade and welfare effects of certification schemes: the 
case of GlobalGAP in Ghana's mango sector. Scientific African, 18. e01425. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sciaf.2022.e01425
Akrong, R., Akorsu, A. D., Jha, P., & Agyenim, J. B. ( 2023 ). Towards environmental sustainability: the role of certification in 
the adoption of climate-smart agricultural practices among Ghanaian mango farmers. Cogent Food & Agriculture, 
9(1). 2174482. https://doi.org/10.1080/23311932.2023.2174482
Ankuyi, F., Tham-Agyekum, E. K., Ankrah, D., Oduro-Owusu, A. Y., Bakang, J. E. A., Boansi, D., & Asirifi, S. ( 2023 ). Beyond 
certification: investigating the nexus between compliance with sustainable agriculture standard and livelihood assets 
of certified smallholder cocoa farmers in Ghana. Cogent Food & Agriculture, 9(1), 2256556. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
23311932.2023.2256556
Bandanaa, J., Asante, I. K., Egyir, I. S., Schader, C., Annang, T. Y., Blockeel, J., Kadzere, I., & Heidenreich, A. ( 2021 ). 
Sustainability performance of organic and conventional cocoa farming systems in atwima mponua district of Ghana. 
Environmental and sustainability indicators, 11. 100121. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indic.2021.100121
Barham, B. L., & Weber, J. G. ( 2012 ). The economic sustainability of certified coffee: recent evidence from Mexico and 
Peru. World Development, 40, 1269–1279. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2011.11.005
Barrios, E., Gemmill-Herren, B., Bicksler, A., Siliprandi, E., Brathwaite, R., Moller, S., Batello, C., & Tittonell, P. ( 2020 ). The10 
elements of agroecology: enabling transitions towards sustainable agriculture and food systems through visual 
narratives. Ecosystems and People, 16, 230–247. https://doi.org/10.1080/26395916.2020.1808705
Bennett, E. A. ( 2017 ). Who governs socially-oriented voluntary sustainability standards? Not the producers of certified 
products. World Development, 91, 53–69. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2016.10.010
Bennett, E. A. ( 2021 ). Voluntary sustainability certifications: what is the point? GJHR J Rev, 1(4), 18–23.
Bennett, M., & Franzel, S. ( 2013 ). Can organic and resource-conserving agriculture improve livelihoods? A synthesis. 
International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability, 11(3), 193–215. https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2012.724925
Bennett, M., Giovannucci, D., Rue, C., Ayerakwa, H., & Agyei-Holmes, A. ( 2013 ). Cocoa Farms in Ghana: An Evaluation of 
the Impact of UTZ Certification on the Sustainability of Smallholders supported by the Solidaridad Cocoa Programme 
(2010−2012). Committee on Sustainability Assessment (COSA) and Institute of Statistical Social and Economic 
Research (ISSER) University of Ghana.
Biovision. ( 2024 ). Are premium prices a distraction? (accessed 17 January 2025). Retrieved from https://www.agroecology- 
pool.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Mass_markets_brief_online.pdf
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 21

--- PAGE 23 ---
Bissinger, K., Brandi, C., Cabrera de Leicht, S., Fiorini, M., Schleifer, P., Fernandez de Cordova, S., & Ahmed, N. ( 2020 ). 
Linking Voluntary Standards to Sustainable Development Goals. International Trade Centre.
Bitzer, V., & Steijn, C. ( 2019 ). The impact of voluntary standards on small-scale farmers in global commodity chains. 
Working Paper 2019:03. KIT.
Boonaert, E., & Maertens, M. ( 2023 ). Voluntary sustainability standards and farmer welfare: the pathways to success? 
Food Policy, 121. 102543. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2023.102543
Bordey, F. H., Moya, P. F., Beltran, J. C., & Dawe, D. C. ( 2016 ). Competitiveness of Philippine rice in Asia. Philippine Rice 
Research Institute and International Rice Research Institute. 
Boshoven, J., Fleck, L. C., Miltner, S., Salafsky, N., Adams, J., Dahl-Jørgensen, A., Fonseca, G., Nepsted, D., Rabinovitch, K., 
& Seymour, F. ( 2021 ). Jurisdictional sourcing: leveraging commodity supply chains to reduce tropical deforestation at 
scale. A generic theory of change for a conservation strategy, v 1.0. Conservation Science and Practice, 3, 2021, e383. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/csp2.383
Brako, D. E., Asare, R., & Gasparatos, A. ( 2021a ). Do voluntary certification standards improve yields and wellbeing? Evidence 
from oil palm and cocoa smallholders in Ghana. International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability, 19(1), 16–39.
Brako, D. E., Asare, R., & Gasparatos, A. ( 2021b ). Sustainable but hungry? Food security outcomes of certification for 
cocoa and oil palm smallholders in Ghana. Environmental Research Letters, 16, 055001. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748- 
9326/abdf88
Castka, P., Leaman, D., Shand, D., Cellarius, D., Healy, T., Mead, A. T. P., Rosales Benites de Franco, M., & Timoshyna, A. 
( 2016 ). Certification and biodiversity: how voluntary certification standards impact biodiversity and human liveli -
hoods, Policy Matters (Vol. 21), IUCN and CEESP.
Chambers, R., & Conway, G. ( 1992 ). Sustainable rural livelihoods: practical concepts for the 21st century, IDS Discussion 
Paper 296.
Chiputwa, B., Obeng, A. F., Ihli, H. J., & Rusinamhodzi, L. ( 2021 ). Gender equality as a pathway to sustainable 
development of cocoa and coffee value chains in east and West Africa. In P. A. Minang, L. A. Duguma, & M. van 
Noordwijk (Eds.), Tree commodities and resilient green economies in Africa. World Agroforestry (ICRAF).
Cox, A., & Le, V. ( 2014 ). Governmental influences on the evolution of agricultural cooperatives in Vietnam: an 
institutional perspective with case studies. Asia Pacific Business Review, 20(3), 401–418. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
13602381.2014.931045
D’Annolfo, Gemmill-Herren, B., Graeub, B., & Garibaldi, L. A. ( 2017 ). A review of social and economic performance of 
agroecology. International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability, 15(6), 632–644. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
14735903.2017.1398123
Demont, M., & Rutsaert, P. ( 2017 ). Restructuring the Vietnamese rice sector: towards increasing sustainability. 
Sustainability, 9(2), 325. https://doi.org/10.3390/su9020325
DFID. ( 1999 ). Sustainable livelihoods guidance sheets, (accessed 1 February 2024). DFID. Retrieved from:  https:// 
www.livelihoodscentre.org/documents/114097690/114438878/Sustainable+livelihoods+guidance+sheets.pdf/594e5 
ea6-99a9-2a4e-f288-cbb4ae4bea8b?t=1569512091877
Doanh, N. K., Thuong, N. T. T., & Heo, Y. ( 2018 ). Impact of conversion to organic tea cultivation on household income in 
the moutainous areas of Northern Vietnam. Sustainability, 10(12), 4475–4496. https://doi.org/10.3390/su10124475
Ehiakpor, D. S., Danso-Abbeam, G., & Mubashiru, Y. ( 2021 ). Adoption of interrelated sustainable agricultural practices among 
smallholder farmers in Ghana. Land Use Policy, 101. 105142. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2020.105142
Elamin, N. E. A., & de Córdoba, S. F. ( 2020 ). The trade impact of voluntary sustainability standards: A review of empirical 
evidence. UNCTAD Researcher Paper No 50, 31 Jul. 2020. United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
Evidensia. ( 2024 ). Evidence typology. (accessed 15 January 2024). Retrieved from: https://www.evidensia.eco/about- 
evidensia/approach-methodology/
Eyhorn, F., Muller, A., Reganold, J. P., Frison, E., Herren, H. R., Luttikholt, L., Mueller, A., Sanders, J., Scialabba, N. E., Seufert, 
V., & Smith, P. ( 2019 ). Sustainability in global agriculture driven by organic farming. Nature Sustainability, 2, 253–255. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41893-019-0266-6
FAO. ( 2014 ). Impact of international voluntary standards on smallholder market participation in developing countries – 
A review of the literature. FAO.
FAO. ( 2022 ). FAO Investment Centre – Annual review 2021. FAO.
Fenger, N. A., Bosselmann, A. S., Asare, R., & de Neergaard, A. ( 2017 ). The impact of certification on the natural and 
financial capitals of Ghanaian cocoa farmers. Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems, 41(2), 143–166. https:// 
doi.org/10.1080/21683565.2016.1258606
Flora, C. B., & Bregendahl, C. ( 2012 ). Collaborative community-supported agriculture: balancing community capitals for 
producers and consumers. International Journal of Sociology of Agriculture and Food, 19(3), 329–346.
Friis-Hansen, E., & Duveskog, D. ( 2012 ). The empowerment route to well-being: an analysis of farmer field schools in east 
Africa. World Development, 40(2), 414–427. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2011.05.005
Furumo, P. R., & Lambin, E. F. ( 2021 ). Policy sequencing to reduce tropical deforestation. Global Sustainability, 4, 
1–12e24. https://doi.org/10.1017/sus.2021.21
Garibaldi, L. A., Gemmill-Herren, B., D'Annolfo, R., Graeub, B. E., Cunningham, S. A., & Breeze, T. D. ( 2017 ). Farming 
approaches for greater biodiversity, livelihoods, and food security. Trends in Ecology and Evolution, 32(1), 68–80. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tree.2016.10.001
22
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 24 ---
Gliessman, S. R. ( 2015 ). Agroecology: The ecology of sustainable food systems. 3rd edn. CRC press.
Grabs, J., & Carodenuto, S. L. ( 2021 ). Traders as sustainability governance actors in global food supply chains: A research 
agenda. Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(2), 1314–1332. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2686
Grassnick, N., Brümmer, B., Grassnick, N., & Brümmer, B. ( 2021 ). Do voluntary sustainability standards increase countries’ 
access to cocoa export markets? (accessed 16 November 2025). GlobalFood Discussion Paper 150 University of 
Goettingen. Retrieved from: http://www.uni-goettingen.de/de/213486.html
Ho, T. Q., Hoang, V.-N., Wilson, C., & Nguyen, T. T. ( 2018 ). Eco-efficiency analysis of sustainability-certified coffee 
production in Vietnam. Journal of Cleaner Production, 183, 251–260. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.02.147
Hung Ahn, N., Bokelmann, W., Nga, Do Thi, & Van Minh, N. ( 2019 ). Toward sustainability or efficiency: the case of 
smallholder coffee farmers in Vietnam. Economies, 7(66), 1–25.
Iddrisu, M., Aidoo, R., & Abawiera Wongnaa, C. ( 2020 ). Participation in UTZ-RA voluntary cocoa certification scheme and 
its impact on smallholder welfare: evidence from Ghana. World Development Perspectives, 20. 100244. https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.wdp.2020.100244
Ingram, V., van Rijn, F., & Waarts, Y. ( 2018 ). The impacts of cocoa sustainability initiatives in West Africa. Sustainability, 
10(11), 4249–4269. https://doi.org/10.3390/su10114249
Jena, P. R., Chichaibelu, B. B., Stellmacher, T., & Grote, U. ( 2012 ). The impact of coffee certification on small-scale 
producers’ livelihoods: A case study from the jimma zone. Ethiopia. Agricultural Economics, 43, 429–440. https:// 
doi.org/10.1111/j.1574-0862.2012.00594.x
Kleemann, L., Abdulai, A., & Buss, M. ( 2014 ). Certification and access to export markets: adoption and return on 
investment of organic-certified pineapple farming in Ghana. World Development, 64, 79–92. https://doi.org/10.1016/ 
j.worlddev.2014.05.005
Klier, S., & Possinger, S. ( 2012 ). Final report Fairtrade impact study: Assessing the impact of Fairtrade on poverty 
reduction through rural development. Center for Evaluation (CEval) Saarland University.
Knowler, D., & Bradshaw, B. ( 2007 ). Farmers’ adoption of conservation agriculture: A review and synthesis of recent 
research. Food Policy, 32, 25–48. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2006.01.003
Kosolapova, E., Verma, R., Turley, L., & Wilkings, A. ( 2023 ). IISD's State of Sustainability Initiatives Review: Standards and 
the Sustainable Development Goals: Leveraging sustainability standards for reporting on SDG progress. International 
Institute for Sustainable Development.
Kuit, M., Guinee, L., & Van Anh, P. ( 2016 ). Estimating the impact of implementation of the 4C entry level standard in 
Uganda and Vietnam. Kuit Consultancy.
Leconte-Demarsy, D., & Rice, B. ( 2025 ). High global phosphate prices pose potential food security risks, accessed 
November 5, 2025. IFPRI Blog, Issue Post Markets, Trade and Institutions. https://www.ifpri.org/blog/high-global- 
phosphate-prices-pose-potential-food-security-risks/
Lee, J., Gereffi, G., & Beauvais, J. ( 2012 ). Global value chains and agrifood standards: challenges and possibilities for 
smallholders in developing countries. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 109(31), 12326–12331. https://doi.org/10.1073/ 
pnas.0913714108
Leippert, F., Darmaun, M., Bernoux, M., & Mpheshea, M. ( 2020 ). The potential of agroecology to build climate-resilient 
livelihoods and food systems. FAO and Biovision.
Lloyd, S. ( 2024 ). Gender equity and coffee agroforestry: the environmental and social impacts of commodity production 
in latin america. Student Theses 2015-Present, (accessed 16 November 2025), 189. https://research.library.fordham.edu/ 
environ_2015/189#lt;/fpage#gt
Mabe, F., Danso-Abbeam, G., Azumah, S., Amoh Boateng, N., Mensah, K., & Boateng, E. ( 2021 ). Drivers of youth in cocoa 
value chain activities in Ghana. Journal of Agribusiness in Developing and Emerging Economies, 11(4), 366–378. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/JADEE-10-2019-0177
Maertens, M., & Swinnen, J. ( 2015 ). Agricultural trade and development: a value chain perspective, WTO Working paper, 
N. ERSD-04. World Trade Organization (WTO).
Mauthofer, T., & Santos, M. ( 2022 ). 2
nd
Follow up study: Assessing the impact of Fairtrade on poverty reduction through 
rural development. Mainlevel Consulting AG.
Meemken, E. M. ( 2020 ). Do smallholder farmers benefit from sustainability standards? A systematic review and meta- 
analysis. Global Food Security, 26. 100373. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gfs.2020.100373
Meemken, E. M., Spielman, D. J., & Qaim, M. ( 2017 ). Trading off nutrition and education? A panel data analysis of the 
dissimilar welfare effects of organic and fairtrade standards. Food Policy, 71, 74–85. https://doi.org/10.1016/ 
j.foodpol.2017.07.010
Msosa, S. K. ( 2022 ). Challenges facing women cooperatives in accessing markets for agricultural products: A systematic 
literature review. International Review of Management and Marketing, 12(6), 37–43. https://doi.org/10.32479/ 
irmm.13420
Nelson, V., Opoku, K., Martin, A., Bugri, J., & Posthumus, H. ( 2013 ). Assessing the poverty impact of sustainability 
standards: Fairtrade in Ghanaian Cocoa Natural Resources Institute.
OECD-FAO. ( 2024 ). OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook 2024–2033. OECD Publishing, Paris and FAO.
Okello, J. J., Zhou, Y., Kwikiriza, N., Ogutu, S., Barker, I., Schulte-Geldermann, E., Atieno, E., & Ahmed, J. T. ( 2017 ). 
Productivity and food security effects of using of certified seed potato: the case of Kenya’s potato farmers. 
Agriculture, 6, 55. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40066-017-0101-0
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 23

--- PAGE 25 ---
Oosterveer, P., Adjei, B. E., Vellema, S., & Slingerland, M. ( 2014 ). Global sustainability standards and food security: 
exploring unintended effects of voluntary certification in palm oil. Global Food Security, 3, 220–226. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.gfs.2014.09.006
Oya, C., Schaefer, F., & Skalidou, D. ( 2018 ). The effectiveness of agricultural certification in developing countries: A 
systematic review. World Development, 112, 282–312. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2018.08.001
Padhiary, M., & Roy, P. ( 2025 ). Collaborative marketing strategies in agriculture for global reach and local impact. In S. 
Pant, V. Venkatesh, P. Panday, G. Shukla, & S. Parhi (Eds.), Emerging Trends in Food and Agribusiness Marketing 
(pp. 219–252). IGI Global Scientific Publishing.
Page, M. J., McKenzie, J. E., Bossuyt, P. M., Boutron, I., Hoffmann, T. C., Mulrow, C. D., Shamseer, L., Tetzlaff, J. M., Akl, E. A., 
Brennan, S. E., Chou, R., Glanville, J., Grimshaw, J. M., Hróbjartsson, A., Lalu, M. M., Li, T., Loder, E. W., Mayo-Wilson, E., 
McDonald, S., … Whiting, P. ( 2021 ). The PRISMA 2020 statement: an updated guideline for reporting systematic 
reviews. International Journal of Surgery, 88. 105906. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijsu.2021.105906
Ponte, S. ( 2019 ). Green capital accumulation: business and sustainability management in a world of global value chains. 
New Political Economy, 25(1), 72–84. https://doi.org/10.1080/13563467.2019.1581152
Ponte, S., & Sturgeon, T. ( 2014 ). Explaining governance in global value chains: A modular theory-building effort. Review 
of International Political Economy, 21(1), 195–223. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2013.809596
Potts, J., Voora, V., Lynch, M., & Mammadova, A. ( 2016 ). Voluntary sustainability standards and biodiversity: 
Understanding the potential of agricultural standards for biodiversity protection. SSI Policy Brief. (Accessed: 05 
November 2025). IISD, IIED and FAST. Retrieved from: https://www.iisd.org/system/files/publications/voluntary- 
sustainability-standards-biodiversity-policy-brief.pdf
Prokopy, L. S., Floress, K., Klotthor-Weinkauf, D., & Baumgart-Getz, A. ( 2008 ). Determinants of agricultural best 
management practice adoption: evidence from the literature. Journal of Soil and Water Conservation, 63, 
300–311. https://doi.org/10.2489/jswc.63.5.300
R Core Team. ( 2023 ). R: A language and environment for statistical computing, R Foundation for Statistical Computing, 
(accessed 15 December 2023). https://www.R-project.org/ 
Ravi, S., & Rajasekaran, S. R. C. ( 2023 ). A perspective of digital marketing in rural areas: A literature review. International 
Journal of Professional Business Review, 8(4), e01388. https://doi.org/10.26668/businessreview/2023.v8i4.1388
Régnier, E., Noël, V., & Aubry, P. M. ( 2025 ). Agriculture in the next European budget: avoiding the status quo Issue Brief 
No. 02 mars 25. IDDRI.
Rietberg, P. I., & Slingerland, M. A. ( 2016 ). Cost and benefits of RSPO certification for independent smallholders: A science 
for policy paper for the RSPO. Wageningen University.
Rijn, F.C., Judge, L.O., Fort, R., Koster, T., Waarts, Y.R., & Ruben, R. ( 2016 ). Fairtrade certification in the hired labour 
banana sector. LEI Report 2015-056. Wageningen UR (University & Research centre).
Schoneveld, G. C. ( 2022 ). Transforming food systems through inclusive agribusiness. World Development, 158. 105970. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2022.105970
Schut, M., Cunha Soares, N., van de Ven, G. W. J., & Slingerland, M. ( 2014 ). Multi-actor governance of sustainable biofuels in 
developing countries: the case of Mozambique. Energy Policy, 65, 631–643. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2013.09.007
Smith, S. ( 2010 ). Fairtrade bananas: a global assessment of impact. Institute of Development Studies.University of 
Sussex.
Snider, A., Gutierrez, I., Sibelet, N., & Faure, G. ( 2017 ). Small farmer cooperatives and voluntary coffee certifications: 
rewarding progressive farmers of engendering widespread change in Costa Rica? Food Policy, 69, 231–242. https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2017.04.009
Stuart, A. M., Devkota, K. P., Sato, T., Pame, A. R. P., Balingbing, C., Phung, N. T. M., Kieu, N. T., Hieu, P. T. M., Long, T. H. L., 
Beebout, S., & Singleton, G. R. ( 2018 ). On-farm assessment of different rice crop management practices in the Mekong 
delta, Vietnam, using sustainability performance indicators. Field Crops Research, 229, 103–114. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.fcr.2018.10.001
Tu, V. H., Can, N. D., Takahashi, Y., Kopp, S. W., & Yabe, M. ( 2019 ). Technical and environmental efficiency of eco-friendly 
rice production in the upstream region of the Vietnamese Mekong delta. Environment, Development and 
Sustainability, 21, 2401–2424. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-018-0140-0
UN. ( 2015 ). Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, (accessed 15 March 2024). https:// 
sdgs.un.org/2030agenda
UNCTAD. ( 2023 ). Voluntary Sustainability Standards in International Trade. (accessed 20 April 2024). United Nations 
Publications. https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/ditctab2022d8_en.pdf 
van Vliet, J. A., Slingerland, M. A., Waarts, Y. R., & Giller, K. E. ( 2021 ). A living income for cocoa producers in Côte d'Ivoire 
and Ghana? Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems, 5, 732831. https://doi.org/10.3389/fsufs.2021.732831
Waarts, Y., Ge, L., & van der Mheen, J. ( 2013 ). A touch of cocoa. Baseline study of six UTZ-Solidaridad cocoa projects in 
Ghana. LEI Wageningen UR.
Waarts, Y., Ingram, V., Linderhof, V., Puister-Jansen, L., van Rijn, F., & Aryeetey, R. ( 2015 ). Impact of UTZ Certification on 
Cocoa Producers in Ghana, 2011 to 2014. LEI Wageningen UR.
Wätzold, M. Y. L., Abdulai, I., Cooke, A., Krumbiegel, K., Ocampo-Ariza, C., Wenzel, A., & Wollni, M. ( 2025 ). Do voluntary 
sustainability standards improve socioeconomic and ecological outcomes? Evidence from Ghana's cocoa sector. 
Ecological Economics, 229. 108474. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2024.108474
24
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA

--- PAGE 26 ---
Wezel, A., Herren, B. G., Kerr, R. B., Barrios, E., Gonçalves, A. L. R., & Sinclair, F. ( 2020 ). Agroecological principles and 
elements and the implications for transitioning to sustainable food systems. A review. Agronomy for Sustainable 
Development, 40, 40. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13593-020-00646-z
World Bank. ( 2019 ). Enabling the Business of Agriculture 2019. World Bank.
Yueh, H. P., & Zheng, Y. L. ( 2019 ). Effectiveness of storytelling in agricultural marketing: scale development and model 
evaluation. Front Psychol, 10(452), 1–12. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.00452
zu Ermgassen, E. K. H. J., Bastos Lima, M. G., Bellfield, H., Dontenville, A., Gardner, T., Godar, J., Heilmayr, R., Indenbaum, 
R., dos Reis, T. N. P., Ribeiro, V., Abu, I.-O., Szantoi, Z., & Meyfroidt, P. ( 2022 ). Addressing indirect sourcing in zero 
deforestation commodity supply chains. Science Advance, 8(17), eabn3132.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 25