--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-082-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-082
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 285
Word Count: 285
--------------------

A Ladakh administration spokesperson said that following a strong push by Lieutenant Governor Vinai Kumar Saxena for promoting branding and export of Ladakh’s GI-tagged “Raktsey Karpo” apricot variety, as well as the region-specific “Halman” variety, the MoU marks a historic first for the region. “This export volume is a quantum jump from just 1,500 kg of apricots exported over the last two years,” the spokesperson said. Saxena on Wednesday held a meeting with representatives of Lulu Retail and Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) to finalise export potential. The MoU was signed through the APEDA and the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI), Government of India. It was signed by Bhupesh Chaudhary, Secretary, Horticulture, UT Administration, and Salim MA, Group Director – Global Operations, Lulu Retail, in the presence of the Lieutenant Governor. Officials said Lulu Retail will procure at least 1,000 MT of apricots from farmers in Ladakh this season and handle processing, packaging, and international marketing while maintaining Ladakh’s identity. Currently, farmers face challenges in sorting, cleaning, packaging, and marketing apricots using traditional methods, often leading to heavy losses. “With the MoU in place, farmers will hand over their orchards at harvest time to the exporter, who will take care of plucking, sorting, processing, packaging, transportation, and marketing in international markets,” the spokesperson said. The Lieutenant Governor said this would ensure minimal losses and fair pricing for farmers. “The unique apricots of Ladakh are an agricultural heritage of the region. The MoU aims to tap the immense yet underutilised potential of apricot cultivation, ensuring better pricing for farmers while strengthening Ladakh’s national and international recognition,” Saxena said during a national workshop on “Enhancing Apricot Cultivation and Value Chain in Ladakh.”