--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-102-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-102
Page Range: Page 8
Word Range: 3952 - 4201
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 8]
numerous stakeholders with varying levels of interest in 
digitalization. Implementing digital transformation 
components is the key to addressing the complexities 
and challenges within this system.
Synthesis and conclusion
This review has made a key contribution by identifying 
the challenges and opportunities of digital transitions 
throughout the entire value chain in the agri-food 
system, spanning from production to disposal. In addi -
tion, it examines the required components of digital 
transformation specifically applied in the agri-food in -
dustry. The analysis presented in this review effectively 
identifies key factors driving or hindering the digital 
transformation process within the agri-food system.
This review lays the baseline for the future debate by 
recommending a systems approach towards digitaliza -
tion, which refers to the comprehensive integration of 
DTs into all aspects of an organization or system, con -
sidering not only individual technologies but also their 
interconnections, processes, and the overall ecosystem. 
This review shows that, instead of using isolated tools, 
the system approach emphasizes the importance of the 
interconnectedness of digital tools, data, infrastructure, 
and workflows. This review concludes that by adopting a 
systems thinking perspective, digitalization benefits the 
entire organization by improving workflows, reducing 
costs, and enhancing customer experiences. This ap -
proach considers long-term sustainability, scalability, 
and collaboration with partners and stakeholders to 
create a networked digital ecosystem. This approach 
allows organizations to remain agile and adaptable, re -
sponding quickly to market changes and technological 
advancements.
The authors assess, based on this review, that the digital 
transformation of the agri-food system still needs several 
improvements and requirements. One is enhanced data 
processing/data sharing, which creates the foundation for 
better decision-making. Secondly, efficient processing 
and sharing of data enables stakeholders to make in -
formed choices based on real-time information and 
trends, which are formed by four needs. The first need is 
the convergence of technologies, where various tech -
nologies are integrated, such as IoT, AI, and blockchain, 
to work seamlessly together and lead to more efficient 
and effective solutions in agricultural practices. The 
second is digitalization for sustainable food production 
awareness, where digital tools are used to quantify sus -
tainability indicators, raising awareness about the sus -
tainability impact of food production, including tracking 
carbon footprints, water usage, and other sustainability 
metrics. The third is improved interoperability, stan -
dards, and semantics to ensure that different digital 
systems and tools can communicate and work together 
effectively as a crucial prerequisite for a unified digital 
approach. The fourth is enhanced user adoption focusing 
on how users, especially farmers and food producers, 
adopt and interact with technology and involve user- 
friendly designs, training, and support systems.
Addressing these needs requires an interdisciplinary 
approach that goes beyond technology itself. It involves 
understanding human-to-technology interactions, chan -
ging mindsets about how digitalization integrates with 
production systems, and focusing on implementing di -
gital systems from a total system perspective. This 
comprehensive approach ensures that digital transfor -
mation not only enhances efficiency but also supports 
sustainable and resilient food production systems.
Data Availability
No data were used for the research described in the article.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationship that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to acknowledge the support of The Centre for 
Sustainable Agrifood Systems (START) for initiating the research colla -
boration, which significantly contributed to this study.
References and recommended reading
Papers of particular interest, published within the period of review, have 
been highlighted as: 
•• of special interest
•• of outstanding interest
1 . El Bilali H, Strassner C, Ben Hassen T: Sustainable agri-food 
systems: environment, economy, society, and policy. 
Sustainability 2021, 17:1667.
2 . Balogun AL, Marks D, Sharma R, Shekhar H, Balmes C, Maheng D, 
Arshad A, Salehi P: Assessing the potentials of digitalization as 
a tool for climate change adaptation and sustainable 
development in urban centres. Sustain Cities Soc 2020, 
53:101888.
3 . Reinhardt T: The farm to fork strategy and the digital 
transformation of the agrifood sector — an assessment from 
the perspective of innovation systems. Appl Econ Perspect 
Policy 2023, 45:819-838.
4 . Wang R, Bush-Evans R, Arden-Close E, Bolat E, McAlaney J, 
Hodge S, Thomas S, Phalp K: Transparency in persuasive 
technology, immersive technology, and online marketing: 
facilitating users’ informed decision making and practical 
implications. Comput Hum Behav 2023, 139:107545.
5.
••
Hassoun A, Marvin HJP, Bouzembrak Y, Barba FJ, Castagnini JM, 
Pallarés N, Rabail R, Aadil RM, Bangar SP, Bhat R, et al.: Digital 
transformation in the agri-food industry: recent applications 
and the role of the COVID-19 pandemic. Front Sustain Food Syst 
2023, 7:1217813. 
Publication explores the integration of DTs in the agri-food industry, 
emphasizing the impact of COVID-19 in driving adoption. The study 
discusses the benefits, challenges, and practical applications of these 
technologies, highlighting the role of Industry 4.0 innovations. It also 
presents recommendations for achieving inclusive digital transformation 
in the food industry.
8 Innovations in Food Science 
www.sciencedirect.com Current Opinion in Food Science 2025, 63:101287