--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C42
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 52 to Page 53
Word Range: 11332 - 11706
Word Count: 375
--------------------

[Page 52]
52
Competitiveness 
Framework: 
Chapter 2 
MSMEs and the Path to Prosperity

[Page 53]
53
While the crucial role played by MSMEs in fostering shared prosperity is widely 
recognised, both government and business leaders continue to grapple with the 
question of how to effectively address the challenges hampering SME development 
and competitiveness. This acknowledgement is coupled with the acceptance of 
various challenges MSMEs face that impede their growth and competitiveness.  The 
urgency of addressing longstanding challenges such as limited access to credit 
markets, inadequate market linkages, and outdated technology has become even more 
pronounced (Daño-Luna, Maribel, & Francisco, 2018). This heightened urgency is driven 
by the evolving structure of the marketplace, the constraints posed by limited resources, 
the management capabilities (Deniz, 2013), (Hautz, 2014), and the ongoing need for 
continuous capacity building. In this context, improving competitiveness emerges as the 
sole pathway to survival (Chobanyan & Laurence, 2006).
Emerging in the 1980s, the concept of competitiveness was studied by Buckley, 
Pass, and Prescott (1988) by examining extant literature which reveals the difficulty 
in measuring competitiveness at the levels of country, industry, firm, and product 
(Buckley, 1988). Michael Porter (1990), in his book ‘The Competitive Advantage of 
Nations’, outlined a new approach to competitiveness. A concept that was approached 
mainly through a macroeconomic lens or a focus on resources inherent to a location, 
took on a productivity-based framework in this seminal work.  This break-away from 
other conceptions of competitiveness emphasized that it is not about what a location 
possesses, but how productively the firm or the nation uses available resources. 
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic capabilities in the national 
business environment where firms compete, without which the broader macro-framework 
would not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in the Indian business 
scenario which harbours a majority of small enterprises. The expectations and actions of 
firms, customers, suppliers, and associated institutions must be taken into consideration. 
The competitiveness framework thrust on assessing microeconomic foundations of 
economic activity will help in capturing this aspect. 
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic 
capabilities in the national business environment where firms 
compete, without which the broader macro-framework would 
not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in 
the Indian business scenario which harbours a majority of small 
enterprises.