--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C17
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 88 to Page 91
Word Range: 21449 - 22788
Word Count: 1,340
--------------------

[Page 88]
88
workflow of the scheme, and proposals to ensure transparency among applicants (Ministry of 
MSME, 2022). An inspection of the portal revealed that the aforementioned updates had not 
been made since the inception of the new guidelines in 2022. Furthermore, the guidelines 
indicate that UDYAM Data on detailed NIC Classification and PIN Codes of registered 
enterprises have been used to formulate detailed cluster maps of all states. This data is not 
available for perusal in the public domain.
Currently, 111 out of the 208 sanctioned Common Facility Centres (CFCs) in India have 
not been completed, and 111 out of 309 Infrastructure Development (ID) Projects are still 
ongoing.  (Ministry of MSME). 1,018 initiatives have been implemented across 964 clusters in 
29 States and 1 Union Territory as part of the program. A total expenditure of Rs. 75.01 Crore 
has been utilised during the financial year 2015-16, up to March 30, 2016, under the Micro 
and Small Enterprises-Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) to implement diverse 
interventions[12]. However, inadequate planning and implementation of the project, the 
inability to complete and operationalise the Common Facility Centre (CFC) due to delayed plot 
allotment to Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) members, insufficient infrastructure development, 
and the failure to secure the remaining grant from the Government of India (GoI), not only 
led to the non-achievement of scheme objectives but also made the expenditure of ₹8.89 
crore, including a GoI grant of ₹5.67 crore, invested in establishing the CFC unproductive. 
(Comptroller and Auditor General of India, 2021) (PIB, 2023) (Ministry of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises, 2023)
The limited effectiveness of a widely acknowledged competitiveness tool, such as cluster 
development, can be attributed to the incomplete adoption and application of this concept 
within the Indian context. The definition and formation of clusters in India are narrow and 
restrictive, considering geographical proximity as the main criterion. However, successful 
frameworks using cluster analysis consider complementarities, linkages and interconnections. 
Italy, a success story in cluster development, encompasses supporting industries in its 
programme and bases its analysis on “specialisation, cooperation and flexibility.” (Report of 
the Expert Committee on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, 2019). Indian MSMEs need 
a framework that considers both preceding and succeeding complementarities, forming a 
comprehensive system that enhances competitiveness across all facets of their growth.
Evaluation 
of State 
Policies
The Central Government in India has established a range of policies to bolster the MSME 
sector. These central schemes, while beneficial nationally, require state-level policies tailored 
to local industrial needs for MSMEs to be effective. State-level MSME policies, however, 
have not been the focus of extensive research and lack of consistent evaluation and detailed 
performance data. In our study, we adopted a structured approach to assess state-specific 
MSME policies across India. Initially, we collected policy documents from each state, 
categorizing them by the presence of a dedicated MSME policy or recent updates to their 
industrial policy. We then pinpointed four crucial pillars for MSME development and examined 
the initiatives each state implemented under these pillars. Through a comparative analysis, 
we evaluated the breadth and impact of these initiatives, offering insights into their potential 
effects on India’s MSME sector. However, our study was limited by the inability to perform 
The Central 
Government 
in India has 
established a 
range of policies 
to bolster the 
MSME sector.

[Page 89]
89
deep, on-the-ground analyses due to a lack of comprehensive data on policy implementation. 
This limitation restricted our ability to suggest highly effective policy recommendations. Our 
research serves as an initial, comprehensive step towards understanding state policy impacts 
on MSMEs and paves the way for future studies, contingent on the availability of more detailed 
data on policy performance.
The Central Government has implemented numerous policies to support the MSME sector, 
as discussed in detail in the preceding section. While these central schemes are designed to 
serve the entire nation, effective state-level policies are crucial for the growth of MSMEs as 
State-specific policies can be tailored to the unique requirements of industrial units within 
a particular state and can assist these units in addressing the specific challenges they 
face. The MSME policies at the state level is a subject that has not drawn much focus in the 
literature. The state policies thus have suffered from a lack of regular evaluations and scrutiny. 
There is also lack of information on the performance of such policies as even though these 
policies are implemented, there is lack of information regarding their performance at the grass 
roots level. In this section, we employed a structured methodology to evaluate the MSME 
policies of various states in India. Initially, we gathered policy documents from each state, 
classifying them based on whether they possessed a dedicated MSME policy document or had 
recently updated their industrial policy. Subsequently, we identified four fundamental pillars 
critical to MSME development and proceeded to scrutinize the initiatives implemented by each 
state under these identified pillars.

[Page 90]
90
Through a systematic comparative analysis, we assessed the scope and coverage of these 
initiatives. This methodological approach facilitated a nuanced evaluation of state-level 
policies, shedding light on their potential impact on the thriving MSME landscape in India. 
While we recognise the limitations inherent in our study, particularly our inability to conduct 
in-depth on-the-ground performance and implementation analyses of these policies, which 
consequently constrains our capacity to provide highly efficient policy recommendations for 
the states, the primary challenge we encountered during our analysis was the unavailability 
of comprehensive data regarding the execution of these policies. Our study would have been 
significantly more reflective of the actual on-the-ground conditions and outcomes of these 
schemes had there been access to high-quality data on the performance of these policies. 
However, our work can be taken as a very thorough first step towards making such an analysis 
of state policies and can lead to further research on the topic. 
Our research serves as an initial, comprehensive step towards 
understanding state policy impacts on MSMEs and paves the way for 
future studies, contingent on the availability of more detailed data on 
policy performance.

[Page 91]
91
13     The states with MSME policy are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, 
Odisha, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. Detailed appendix
There are some significant efforts made by a few states to promote MSME development in the 
country. However, there is a general lack of adequate emphasis on this sector among state 
governments. The evidence for the lack of emphasis lies in the fact that only 15 out of the 
28 states16  have a specialised MSME policy in the country; for the other 13 states, either the 
MSME sector forms a small part of the elaborate industrial policy, or there is the absence of 
MSME-specific policies in the state. Although there has been a lack of adequate focus from 
the states on the sector, the states have made some progress in providing some impetus to 
the MSME units, especially in recovering the costs of setting up new businesses. There is a 
capital investment subsidy provided to the states, usually up to 25%, that helps MSMEs set up 
their plant and machinery and covers major capital expenditure for the same. The Stamp duty 
exemption of up to 100% is being provided to the sector, which incentivises the firms to set up 
and eventually formalise. To ascertain that the MSMEs are producing quality products and able 
to market their product better, the firms are encouraged to get certified through subsidies 
and reimbursement for costs incurred for certification. In addition to the financial incentive, 
a single window clearance system is established to make the process simpler for the units. 
Introducing the Zero Defect Zero Effect (ZED) certification is a new concept in the policy space. 
Acquisition of the ZED certification helps the firms publicise the fact that they have sustainable 
production methods and are able to market their products better, especially in the foreign 
market. While the state government’s initiatives represent a positive step towards addressing 
the challenges faced by MSMEs in the country, these policies fall short of adequately 
addressing the fundamental issues that hinder their growth and success.