--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C75
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 86
Word Range: 21448 - 21697
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 86]
86
The Ministry failed to realise the intended results of the schemes primarily due to the absence 
of a proper assessment of necessary skills, skill gaps, and the trade-offs involved in conducting 
these trainings. Additionally, there were no requirements set by the Ministry for training 
institutions to ensure the employability of trainees and guarantee the desired outcomes of the 
training programs.
The scheme's incapacity to effectively address a fundamental skilling issue discourages 
enterprises from engaging in government programs. This, in turn, deprives them of affordable 
and relevant training opportunities, forcing them to rely on costly upskilling courses that are 
hard to access. This obstacle significantly hampers the scalability and competitiveness of 
MSMEs.
Public Procurement Policy 
2012, for Micro and Small 
Enterprises
3.
The Public Procurement Policy for Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India 
mandates that central government ministries and departments should procure at least 
25% of their annual goods and services from MSMEs, with an additional 4% from MSMEs 
owned by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The fundamental motive of this Policy 
is to advance and develop Micro and Small Enterprises by aiding them in marketing their 
products and services. The primary objectives are to foster the growth of MSMEs, enhance 
their participation in public procurement, and ensure equitable opportunities for them. These 
objectives rely on principles of competitiveness, adherence to sound procurement practices, 
and the execution of supplies in accordance with a system that is fair, transparent, competitive, 
and cost-effective. To promote greater involvement of MSEs in government procurement, 
Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) are encouraged to conduct Vendor Development 
Programmes or Buyer-Seller Meets, particularly for SC/ST entrepreneurs (Public Procurement 
Policy, 2016)13 .
The CAG Audit (Comptroller and Auditor General of India, 2018) encompassing various 
procurement practices and compliance within the Central Public Sector Enterprises found 
that there have been shortcomings in procurement targets and compliance, payment issues to 
vendors, outstanding dues, billing practices, and conducting vendor development programs. 
This necessitates a need for stronger regulations, better financial management, transparency 
in transactions and clearer policy communication and enforcement mechanisms. The handling 
of complaints and grievances also raised concerns. While complaints were received, it was 
found that they were not adequately processed through the grievance cell. Furthermore, 
the outcomes of these complaints were not updated on the portal, indicating a lack of 
transparency and accountability in addressing vendor concerns. Nodal officers, important for 
coordination and communication not appointed by all CPSEs. The website was rarely updated 
with procurement plans or updates.
13    Evidence to support achievements of participation in Vender Development Programmes could not be furnished 
hence the successful execution for the same cannot be verified (https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/Vendor_
Development_Programme_Ancillarisation.pdf)
The primary 
objectives 
are to foster 
the growth 
of MSMEs, 
enhance their 
participation 
in public 
procurement, 
and ensure 
equitable 
opportunities 
for them.