--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C78
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 87 to Page 88
Word Range: 22198 - 22447
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 87]
87
Micro and Small Enterprises: 
Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP)
3.
This highlights India’s challenges related to the capacity of policy administration, leading to 
significant issues and uncertainties in the implementation of SME support measures. Along with 
this, anti-competitive practices like corruption meddle with schemes like public procurement in 
India leading to artificial inflation in prices  (Patil, 2017) . In a nation where the missing middle 
persists with a missing small as well, these schemes are crucial as they offer opportunities for 
such enterprises to engage in the market. The inefficiency in these programs not only hampers 
competition among existing enterprises by restricting diversity and inadvertently favouring 
larger businesses, but it also establishes obstacles to the entry of new and emerging small 
businesses.
14 A Common Facility Centre (CFC) is defined as an infrastructural 
hub for processing, training, marketing, raw material depot, 
effluent treatment, complementary production processes, testing 
laboratory, and ancillary activities for MSMEs (https://msme.gov.
in/sites/default/files/ModifiedGuidelinesofMSE_0.pdf)
15  A Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) is a company registered under 
Section 8 of Companies Act set up for the purpose of running 
projects under MSE-CDP. A company registered under 
Section 8 of the Companies Act is a non-profit organization 
with limited liability that aims to promote charitable 
activities, art, science, education, and sports. (https://
msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/FAQs-MSE-CDP.pdf, https://
www.icsi.edu/media/webmodules/publications/FAQs_on_
Section_8_Companies.pdf)
MSME Cluster Development is a program of the Government of India that aims to promote the 
growth and development of MSMEs by developing and upgrading their clusters. The objective 
of the scheme is to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of Micro and Small 
Enterprises (MSEs) for their holistic development. This involves providing financial assistance 
in the form of a Government of India (GoI) grant to establish Common Facility Centres (CFCs)14 
provide shared services to enterprises in existing clusters and for upgrading or establishing 
new Industrial Areas, Estates, and Flatted Factory Complexes. The scheme also involved the 
establishment of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)15  to leverage resources, enhance access to 
public resources, and improve linkages to credit and marketing competitiveness (Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India, 2021).
Applying for the MSE-CDP consists of a ten-step procedure according 
to the recently revised guidelines (Ministry of MSME). Such a 
complicated procedure may prove to be a hindrance and beyond 
the scope of the limited capabilities of Micro- and Small-
Enterprises. Additionally, the project approval process 
requires the applicants to produce multiple documents, 
including a project appraisal report and registered land 
documents, thus increasing the compliance burden 
on the enterprises. According to the newly released 
guidelines in 2022, the digital portal for the scheme 
would be revamped to include photographs of 
ongoing projects, a map of clusters across India,

[Page 88]
88
workflow of the scheme, and proposals to ensure transparency among applicants (Ministry of 
MSME, 2022). An inspection of the portal revealed that the aforementioned updates had not 
been made since the inception of the new guidelines in 2022. Furthermore, the guidelines 
indicate that UDYAM Data on detailed NIC Classification and PIN Codes of registered 
enterprises have been used to formulate detailed cluster maps of all states. This data is not 
available for perusal in the public domain.
Currently, 111 out of the 208 sanctioned Common Facility Centres (CFCs) in India have 
not been completed, and 111 out of 309 Infrastructure Development (ID) Projects are still 
ongoing.  (Ministry of MSME). 1,018 initiatives have been implemented across 964 clusters in 
29 States and 1 Union Territory as part of the program. A total expenditure of Rs. 75.01 Crore 
has been utilised during the financial year 2015-16, up to March 30, 2016, under the Micro 
and Small Enterprises-Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) to implement diverse 
interventions[12]. However, inadequate planning and implementation of the project, the 
inability to complete and operationalise the Common Facility Centre (CFC) due to delayed plot 
allotment to Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) members, insufficient infrastructure development, 
and the failure to secure the remaining grant from the Government of India (GoI), not only 
led to the non-achievement of scheme objectives but also made the expenditure of ₹8.89 
crore, including a GoI grant of ₹5.67 crore, invested in establishing the CFC unproductive. 
(Comptroller and Auditor General of India, 2021) (PIB, 2023) (Ministry of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises, 2023)
The limited effectiveness of a widely acknowledged competitiveness tool, such as cluster 
development, can be attributed to the incomplete adoption and application of this concept 
within the Indian context. The definition and formation of clusters in India are narrow and 
restrictive, considering geographical proximity as the main criterion. However, successful 
frameworks using cluster analysis consider complementarities, linkages and interconnections. 
Italy, a success story in cluster development, encompasses supporting industries in its 
programme and bases its analysis on “specialisation, cooperation and flexibility.” (Report of 
the Expert Committee on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, 2019). Indian MSMEs need 
a framework that considers both preceding and succeeding complementarities, forming a 
comprehensive system that enhances competitiveness across all facets of their growth.
Evaluation 
of State 
Policies
The Central Government in India has established a range of policies to bolster the MSME 
sector. These central schemes, while beneficial nationally, require state-level policies tailored 
to local industrial needs for MSMEs to be effective. State-level MSME policies, however, 
have not been the focus of extensive research and lack of consistent evaluation and detailed 
performance data. In our study, we adopted a structured approach to assess state-specific 
MSME policies across India. Initially, we collected policy documents from each state, 
categorizing them by the presence of a dedicated MSME policy or recent updates to their 
industrial policy. We then pinpointed four crucial pillars for MSME development and examined 
the initiatives each state implemented under these pillars. Through a comparative analysis, 
we evaluated the breadth and impact of these initiatives, offering insights into their potential 
effects on India’s MSME sector. However, our study was limited by the inability to perform 
The Central 
Government 
in India has 
established a 
range of policies 
to bolster the 
MSME sector.