--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C45
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 56
Word Range: 12257 - 12578
Word Count: 322
--------------------

[Page 56]
56
Clusters 
Concept 
Evolution 
Cluster 
Approach: 
Unravelling 
Divergences 
in Adoption in 
India 
The role of clusters in enhancing the competitiveness at firm level (including MSMEs is 
exceedingly important particularly in the current era of globalization. It was first mentioned 
by Alfred Marshall, who laid the foundation for understanding the externalities within clusters 
(Marshall, 1920). Post this various models, such as the Collective Efficiency Model (Schmitz, 
1995), Flexible Specialization Model ,and Diamond Model (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New 
Economies of Competition, 1998) were employed for the analysis of clusters (Neven & Dröge, 
2001). 
There are differences in each model: Piore and Sabel’s Flexible Specialization Model views 
a cluster as an industrial district comprised of small enterprises engaged in a complex 
network of competition and cooperation, emphasizing value creation, holistic approaches, 
and the dynamic aspects of the cluster. Each model contributes unique insights, collectively 
enriching the understanding of clusters in diverse contexts. In contrast, Schmitz’s Collective 
Efficiency Model conceptualizes a cluster as a group of producers engaged in similar activities 
in close proximity, focusing on factor conditions, demand conditions, externalities, joint action, 
flexibility, economies of scope, innovation, and product differentiation.  Whereas Porter’s 
Diamond Model defines a cluster as a network of interconnected firms and institutions in 
a specific field located within a particular geographical area, emphasizing firm strategy, 
structure, rivalry, factor conditions, demand conditions, and related and supporting industries. 
Out of all models, Porter’s definition of cluster has found extensive application in advanced 
economies but has been notably overlooked in research on developing nations7.  
While acknowledging the advantages, the Government of India 
has initiated cluster-forming endeavours and devised strategies 
to amplify this ecosystem’s scale for MSMEs. The Ministry of 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Government of 
India (GoI) has adopted the Cluster Development approach 
as a key strategy for enhancing the productivity and 
competitiveness as well as capacity building of Micro 
and Small Enterprises (MSEs) and their collectives in 
the country.