--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C107
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 108 to Page 109
Word Range: 30088 - 30337
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 108]
108
In the Indian context, clusters cater to diverse markets, spanning local, regional, national, 
and international levels. However, the success of these clusters should not be solely gauged 
by international market links. Instead, there should be a shift towards emphasising product 
diversification and enhancing local technological capabilities. While export-oriented strategies 
are crucial, acknowledging the strong presence of a large, segmented domestic market is 
essential—a dimension sometimes overlooked in discussions on value chain analyses.
To enhance the cluster development program for micro and small enterprises in India, 
revisiting the definition of clusters is imperative. Regional policymakers can leverage cluster 
policies as a pragmatic and convenient place-based organising principle, demonstrating 
political commitment, pursuing an innovation policy mix, efficiently mobilising public 
resources, and prioritising strategic regional sectors. Personalised services to SMEs, 
addressing regional research and innovation weaknesses, should be offered. These services 
can assess and review the innovation capabilities of private companies, providing roadmaps 
for improvement. Additionally, clusters can be pivotal in promoting university-industry 
collaboration, essential for fostering innovation, knowledge transfer, and strengthening 
regional competitiveness. Clusters should actively encourage broader collaboration among 
public and private research and technology organizations, serving as catalysts for collaborative 
innovation activities between universities and industries.
Cluster specific Recommendations
A dominance of upstream activities is observed in almost all clusters. This may suggest 
reliance on raw material processing and intermediate production stages rather than focusing 
on higher-value end products, which can challenge enterprise competitiveness. 
Cluster Recommendations  Regions to focus on 
Textile 
Manufacturing 
and Apparel
 » SMEs in Textile Manufacturing should focus on high-
value product design, local branding, customisation, 
integrated supply chain services, and higher product 
quality. Overall, India’s GVC integration should move 
toward higher value-generating downstream activities 
such as readymade garments (or clothing or apparel.
 » To achieve these objectives without increasing costs, 
they should collaborate with overseas and Indian 
design schools, invest in new product technology, 
partner with high-end retail outlets, link supply chains 
electronically, and invest in capital equipment and local 
training institutions for process innovation, product 
management, and quality control.
 » The Economic Survey 2024 highlighted technological 
obsolescence as a significant contributor to problems 
in the textile and apparel industry. This necessitates 
investment in technology upgradation, especially in 
weaving and processing segments.
 » Improving the brand image of Indian apparel and 
garments is needed to increase the unit value 
realisation (UVR).
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in
 » Textile manufacturing in Surat, Panipat, 
Sant Ravidas Nagar, Ludhiana, Varanasi, 
Imphal East, Tiruppur, Namakkal, and 
Erode.
 » Apparel manufacturing in Tiruppur, 
Ludhiana, Haulakandi, Bangalore, Erode, 
Supaul, Coimbatore, Kaushambi, Gautam 
Buddha Nagar and Sant Ravidas Nagar
To ensure economies of scale happen, 
districts around these regions should 
become more competitive.

[Page 109]
109
Food Processing 
Cluster 
 » Agri-food policy actively directed at developing a link 
between production and processing is the need of 
the hour. For example, GoI efforts to put Millet Indian 
products on the global map
 » Maximise value added throughout the supply chain by 
improving current processes and through innovation. 
For Example: Combining goods-in-transit insurance 
with sensor-based cargo tracking devices can help 
reduce damage to property and goods in transit
 » Stagnant market share in food products; Need to 
diversify into other by-products -and develop other 
niche markets.
 » At the state level, branding guidance for agricultural 
products for MSME projects and food cluster formation 
is needed.
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in:
 » Food Processing and Manufacturing 
in Tinsukia, Dakshin. Bastar Dantewada, 
Kiphire, Mahoba
 » Local Food and Beverage Processing 
and Distribution This cluster is present 
in most of the districts of India.
It must be noted that regional 
specialisation is almost low and stagnant, 
as more than 60 % of districts have lower 
LQ, which lies between 2 and 0. Since 
it’s a traded cluster and employs most of 
the MSME sector, immediate steps are 
required to improve the productivity of this 
cluster across India.
Strengthening efforts in the northeastern 
and eastern belts of India are urgently 
needed. Due to the uniqueness and 
diversity of the food products, these belts 
demonstrate huge potential for integration 
in GVCs.
Chemical Cluster  » For SMEs involved in chemical products, the integrated 
ecosystem is crucial, but the biggest challenge is 
attracting and retaining skilled workers.
 » State governments should focus on expanding the 
pool of engineers and researchers through increased 
collaboration domestically and international students.
 » Due to their lower bargaining power, SMEs face higher 
barriers to regulatory and compliance efforts regarding 
products. To further minimise risk, compliance and 
regulatory efforts need to be streamlined.
 » Moreover, building stronger marketing capabilities is 
imperative to facilitate progress downstream in the 
value chain.
 » Investments in Industry 4.0, such as predictive 
maintenance, data analytics, and supply chain 
optimisation tools, can enhance productivity and 
reduce costs
 » Reducing dependence on imported raw materials, 
particularly from China, can be crucial for MSMEs. 
Exploring alternative domestic suppliers or developing 
more resilient supply chains can lower input costs.
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in:
 » Upstream Chemical Products in 
Bharuch, Gwalior, Gandhinagar, Medak, 
Nainital, Valsad, Palamu, Raigarh and 
Uttara Kannada, Samba, Palwal and 
Ujjain 
 » Downstream Chemical Products in 
Virudhunagar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Prayagraj, Bharuch, Karaikal, Sagar and 
Thoothukkudi
More focus must be placed on targeting 
MSMEs and strengthening their 
dominance in both sub-clusters.