--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C77
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 87
Word Range: 21948 - 22197
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 87]
87
Micro and Small Enterprises: 
Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP)
3.
This highlights India’s challenges related to the capacity of policy administration, leading to 
significant issues and uncertainties in the implementation of SME support measures. Along with 
this, anti-competitive practices like corruption meddle with schemes like public procurement in 
India leading to artificial inflation in prices  (Patil, 2017) . In a nation where the missing middle 
persists with a missing small as well, these schemes are crucial as they offer opportunities for 
such enterprises to engage in the market. The inefficiency in these programs not only hampers 
competition among existing enterprises by restricting diversity and inadvertently favouring 
larger businesses, but it also establishes obstacles to the entry of new and emerging small 
businesses.
14 A Common Facility Centre (CFC) is defined as an infrastructural 
hub for processing, training, marketing, raw material depot, 
effluent treatment, complementary production processes, testing 
laboratory, and ancillary activities for MSMEs (https://msme.gov.
in/sites/default/files/ModifiedGuidelinesofMSE_0.pdf)
15  A Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) is a company registered under 
Section 8 of Companies Act set up for the purpose of running 
projects under MSE-CDP. A company registered under 
Section 8 of the Companies Act is a non-profit organization 
with limited liability that aims to promote charitable 
activities, art, science, education, and sports. (https://
msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/FAQs-MSE-CDP.pdf, https://
www.icsi.edu/media/webmodules/publications/FAQs_on_
Section_8_Companies.pdf)
MSME Cluster Development is a program of the Government of India that aims to promote the 
growth and development of MSMEs by developing and upgrading their clusters. The objective 
of the scheme is to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of Micro and Small 
Enterprises (MSEs) for their holistic development. This involves providing financial assistance 
in the form of a Government of India (GoI) grant to establish Common Facility Centres (CFCs)14 
provide shared services to enterprises in existing clusters and for upgrading or establishing 
new Industrial Areas, Estates, and Flatted Factory Complexes. The scheme also involved the 
establishment of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)15  to leverage resources, enhance access to 
public resources, and improve linkages to credit and marketing competitiveness (Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India, 2021).
Applying for the MSE-CDP consists of a ten-step procedure according 
to the recently revised guidelines (Ministry of MSME). Such a 
complicated procedure may prove to be a hindrance and beyond 
the scope of the limited capabilities of Micro- and Small-
Enterprises. Additionally, the project approval process 
requires the applicants to produce multiple documents, 
including a project appraisal report and registered land 
documents, thus increasing the compliance burden 
on the enterprises. According to the newly released 
guidelines in 2022, the digital portal for the scheme 
would be revamped to include photographs of 
ongoing projects, a map of clusters across India,