--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C87
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 96
Word Range: 24636 - 24885
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 96]
96
SOME TAXATION ISSUES OF MSMEs
The Finance Act 2023 introduced a new rule, Section 43B(h), which requires 
businesses to pay their MSME suppliers within 45 days to claim tax deductions. This 
has caused significant concern among MSMEs, as it can disrupt their cash flow and 
lead to potential financial losses since buyers (of MSMEs’ products) can reorient 
their sourcing and purchasing preferences to non-MSME sellers. Many industry 
bodies, such as CAIT and CMAI, have appealed to the  government to reconsider the 
implementation of this rule, citing its potential negative impact on the MSME sector.
MSMEs face complex GST compliance requirements, including filing multiple 
returns (e.g., TCS, ISD, and annual returns) across states. This demands significant 
administrative effort and technical expertise, which MSMEs often lack. Usually, it’s 
the proprietor himself managing accounting and book-keeping tasks. 
Issues relayed to Input Tax Credit: When payments 
extend payment terms beyond 180 days (sometimes 
due to specific terms in the agreement), the input 
tax credit can be reversed. This means working 
capital blockages for MSMEs and the additional 
burden of reclaiming ITC upon payment. 
B. Addressing skilling challenges faced by MSMEs
The data shows that a significant portion of the workforce is concentrated in Skill Level 1 (low-
skilled) and Skill Level 2 (semi-skilled) categories, while highly skilled workers (Skill Levels 3 and 
4) remain limited. At the same time, for example, there have been significant advancements 
in India’s Biotech Innovation Ecosystem. Over nine years, for example, BIRAC has facilitated 
the creation and support of 4,800 startups and entrepreneurs and helped establish 95 bio-
incubators across 21 states/UTs. This has led to the creation of 35000 high-skilled jobs. Such 
developments call for investments in STEM education, and initiatives like the Skill India Mission 
should be tailored to the requirements of a fast-evolving job market, emphasising innovation 
and technological advancements.
Analysis of PLFS data shows that a substantial proportion of the workforce aged 15 to 59 
lacks formal vocational or technical training. While the proportion has decreased from 91.9% 
in 2017-18 to 72.6% in 2022–23, it still indicates a significant gap in formal skill development 
for a substantial segment of the Indian workforce. Creating partnerships between industries, 
educational institutions, and the government can help design curriculum and training modules 
that equip workers with skills relevant to future job markets. Implementing shorter courses, 
online/hybrid training and on-site training options can accommodate the diverse needs of 
MSMEs.