--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C105
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 107
Word Range: 29507 - 29837
Word Count: 331
--------------------

[Page 107]
107
 » The limit of Mudra loans under the ‘Tarun’ category is to be increased from Rs.20 lakh to Rs.10 lakh for 
those who have successfully repaid previous loans. 
 » New mechanism for banks and financial institutions to MSMEs during their stressed period. 
 » The turnover threshold for buyers for mandatory onboarding on the TReDS platform will be reduced from 
500 crore to 250 crore. 
 » SIDBI will open new branches to expand its reach to serve all major MSME clusters within 3 years and 
provide direct credit to them. With the opening of 24 such branches this year, the service coverage will 
expand to 168 out of 242 major clusters.
 » Financial support to set up 50 multi-product food irradiation units in the MSME sector. 
 » E-Commerce Export Hubs will be set up under public-private partnership (PPP) mode for MSMEs and 
traditional artisans to sell their products in international markets.
1. Enhancing Institutional Support and Financial Assistance to Boost MSME Cash Flow: 
2. MSME Units for Food Irradiation, Quality & Safety Testing:
Learnings from Cluster-
level Analysis 
3.
Rethinking clusters for MSME development
India’s cluster policy, established in 1987, is rooted in the amalgamation of collective efficiency 
and flexible specialisation, diverging significantly from strategies employed by developed 
nations following Michael E. Porter’s cluster approach. Notable examples include the United 
States and the European Union, which utilise cluster mapping initiatives to inform policy 
decisions and promote cross-border collaboration.
For instance, the United States, through the Cluster Mapping Initiative led by the Harvard 
Business School Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness, employs data and insights to 
shape economic development strategies at various governance levels. Similarly, the European 
Union, over the past thirty years, has been promoting cluster mapping through initiatives like 
the European Cluster Observatory (ECO) and the European Cluster Collaboration Platform 
(ECCP). ECO collects and disseminates data, while ECCP fosters cross-border collaboration 
among businesses, research institutions, and clusters, particularly focusing on small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).