--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C79
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 88
Word Range: 22448 - 22697
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 88]
88
workflow of the scheme, and proposals to ensure transparency among applicants (Ministry of 
MSME, 2022). An inspection of the portal revealed that the aforementioned updates had not 
been made since the inception of the new guidelines in 2022. Furthermore, the guidelines 
indicate that UDYAM Data on detailed NIC Classification and PIN Codes of registered 
enterprises have been used to formulate detailed cluster maps of all states. This data is not 
available for perusal in the public domain.
Currently, 111 out of the 208 sanctioned Common Facility Centres (CFCs) in India have 
not been completed, and 111 out of 309 Infrastructure Development (ID) Projects are still 
ongoing.  (Ministry of MSME). 1,018 initiatives have been implemented across 964 clusters in 
29 States and 1 Union Territory as part of the program. A total expenditure of Rs. 75.01 Crore 
has been utilised during the financial year 2015-16, up to March 30, 2016, under the Micro 
and Small Enterprises-Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) to implement diverse 
interventions[12]. However, inadequate planning and implementation of the project, the 
inability to complete and operationalise the Common Facility Centre (CFC) due to delayed plot 
allotment to Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) members, insufficient infrastructure development, 
and the failure to secure the remaining grant from the Government of India (GoI), not only 
led to the non-achievement of scheme objectives but also made the expenditure of ₹8.89 
crore, including a GoI grant of ₹5.67 crore, invested in establishing the CFC unproductive. 
(Comptroller and Auditor General of India, 2021) (PIB, 2023) (Ministry of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises, 2023)
The limited effectiveness of a widely acknowledged competitiveness tool, such as cluster 
development, can be attributed to the incomplete adoption and application of this concept 
within the Indian context. The definition and formation of clusters in India are narrow and 
restrictive, considering geographical proximity as the main criterion. However, successful 
frameworks using cluster analysis consider complementarities, linkages and interconnections. 
Italy, a success story in cluster development, encompasses supporting industries in its 
programme and bases its analysis on “specialisation, cooperation and flexibility.” (Report of 
the Expert Committee on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, 2019). Indian MSMEs need 
a framework that considers both preceding and succeeding complementarities, forming a 
comprehensive system that enhances competitiveness across all facets of their growth.
Evaluation 
of State 
Policies
The Central Government in India has established a range of policies to bolster the MSME 
sector. These central schemes, while beneficial nationally, require state-level policies tailored 
to local industrial needs for MSMEs to be effective. State-level MSME policies, however, 
have not been the focus of extensive research and lack of consistent evaluation and detailed 
performance data. In our study, we adopted a structured approach to assess state-specific 
MSME policies across India. Initially, we collected policy documents from each state, 
categorizing them by the presence of a dedicated MSME policy or recent updates to their 
industrial policy. We then pinpointed four crucial pillars for MSME development and examined 
the initiatives each state implemented under these pillars. Through a comparative analysis, 
we evaluated the breadth and impact of these initiatives, offering insights into their potential 
effects on India’s MSME sector. However, our study was limited by the inability to perform 
The Central 
Government 
in India has 
established a 
range of policies 
to bolster the 
MSME sector.