--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C113
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 113
Word Range: 31696 - 32012
Word Count: 317
--------------------

[Page 113]
113
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Stakeholder 
engagement
 » There is a critical need to raise awareness among potential beneficiaries about existing 
policies and schemes for MSMEs to ensure they reach the intended recipients. State 
governments must enhance outreach and communication to ensure policies are accessible 
and understood by MSMEs. Regular surveys and assessments to monitor the performance 
of MSME policies provide a basis for evidence-based improvements.
 » Policymakers need to engage more effectively with MSME stakeholders, including 
representatives of Owner-Operated Enterprises (OAEs) and women-owned enterprises, 
which face unique challenges that are often overlooked.
 » MSMEs in informal sectors also need to be captured in the government/public datasets. 
Analysing this data using statistical methods will help derive insights and identify areas for 
improvement towards reducing informality in the MSME sector
 » Additionally, focus on high-tech sectors such as semiconductors and biotechnology. 
Establish district-level initiatives that help integrate micro, small, and medium enterprises 
(MSMEs) into global value chains.
 » Among the SMEs in textile manufacturing, collaboration with Indian and international design 
schools, investment in new product technologies, and partnership with high-end retail 
outlets need to be promoted. State governments should focus on expanding the talent pool 
of engineers and researchers for chemical product sector SMEs by increasing domestic 
and international collaboration with students. They also need to support strengthening the 
marketing capabilities of SMEs to advance downstream in the value chain and enhance 
their competitiveness. Reducing dependence on imported raw materials can promote the 
segment’s sustainable growth. 
 » The state government should invest in electronic supply chain linkage for SMEs in textile 
manufacturing. This would involve investing in capital equipment and local training 
institutions to foster process innovation, product management, and quality control.
 » In Food processing, state governments can help the MSMEs by supporting international 
trade fairs, exhibitions, export promotion programs, training and workshops on marketing 
techniques and digital marketing geared towards diversifying into by-products and 
developing niche markets.