--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C25
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 39 to Page 40
Word Range: 6675 - 6924
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 39]
39
The contribution of MSMEs compared to their proportion in the total firms is abysmal due 
to multiple internal, external, and firm-level factors. Internal factors include the quality of 
human capital, utilization of technology, and working capital; external factors include access 
to financial services, social and business security services, infrastructure, and so on. Other 
firm-level factors, such as linkages with other firms, hinder their growth (Ishengoma & Kappe, 
2006).  
Against this background, formalization can be a solution. The advantage of formalization is 
access to a range of government subsidies and rewards, legally binding business agreements, 
tax advantages, access to established financial channels, and additional motivators. With 
improved access to these resources, enhancing productivity becomes more feasible through 
technological advancements in production and digitalization and is the primary step toward 
establishing MSMEs in the Global Value Chain. (Kapoor & Kowadkar, Gradual shift from 
informal to formal for MSMEs, 2022). However, there are disadvantages to formalization as 
well in the current business and regulatory environment, especially in developing economies. 
Research points out that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with a higher degree of 
formality still face the same obstacles as those with a higher level of informality, along with 
high cost of operation and reduction in government exemptions (Weder, 2003).
Various countries have been addressing the need to formalize small businesses. Kenya 
introduced the Micro and Small Enterprise Act in 2012, creating an authority to support these 
enterprises. China has established Employment Service Organizations, like the SCESO in 
Shanghai, to help informal businesses with various aspects of establishment and operation. 
South Africa’s 1994 national small business strategy aims to assist SMEs in becoming more 
competitive and connected to formal markets, with the National Productivity Institute 
providing training and support. These efforts highlight a global commitment to empowering 
small and informal businesses.
In India, there have been a few initiatives that are changing the formalization landscape of 
MSMEs. The Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM), the previous platform for registering MSMEs in 
India, had 1.02 crore registrations from September 2015 to June 30, 2020. The Udyam portal 
replaced UAM on July 1, 2020, to simplify registration. In just two years, Udyam has garnered 
over 90 lakh registrations, nearing the 1 crore mark  (MSME Desk, 2022). The Udyam database 
is merging with NCS, e-Shram, and ASEEM portals to formalize micro-enterprises. 
Currently, Udyam has around 95 lakh MSMEs registered. The MSME Ministry is addressing 
the delayed payments issue by collaborating with state governments. The Udyam Registration 
Portal (URP) by the Ministry of MSME, Govt. of India, facilitates online MSME registration and 
In India, there have been a few initiatives that are changing the 
formalization landscape of MSMEs. The Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM), 
the previous platform for registering MSMEs in India, had 1.02 crore 
registrations from September 2015 to June 30, 2020.

[Page 40]
40
provides Unique Registration Numbers (URN) and Udyam Assist Certificates (UAC). URN is 
crucial for MSMEs to access priority sector lending. However, several of the estimated 6.34 
crore MSMEs, mainly Informal Micro Enterprises (IMEs), remain unregistered due to various 
barriers. To help IMEs formalize, an ‘Assist Methodology’ is proposed. Designated Agencies 
(DAs) like banks, NBFCs, and MFIs will assist IMEs in registration. The central URN will play 
a key role in MSME formalization, making Udyam-registered IMEs eligible for priority sector 
loans and facilitating digitalization  (MSME Formalisation project, 2023). Along with this, GST 
has eased tax compliance and influenced formalization. However, stringent labour laws, tax 
burden, complex regulations and extensive costs as a result of formalization acts as deterrents 
for the formalization of MSMEs
Adoption of an all-of-economy approach that addresses a multitude of challenges faced by 
enterprises at all levels- from reasons to stay unregistered and issues after formalization to 
assessing the degree of formalization necessary in an economy is vital.