--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C106
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 108
Word Range: 29838 - 30087
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 108]
108
In the Indian context, clusters cater to diverse markets, spanning local, regional, national, 
and international levels. However, the success of these clusters should not be solely gauged 
by international market links. Instead, there should be a shift towards emphasising product 
diversification and enhancing local technological capabilities. While export-oriented strategies 
are crucial, acknowledging the strong presence of a large, segmented domestic market is 
essential—a dimension sometimes overlooked in discussions on value chain analyses.
To enhance the cluster development program for micro and small enterprises in India, 
revisiting the definition of clusters is imperative. Regional policymakers can leverage cluster 
policies as a pragmatic and convenient place-based organising principle, demonstrating 
political commitment, pursuing an innovation policy mix, efficiently mobilising public 
resources, and prioritising strategic regional sectors. Personalised services to SMEs, 
addressing regional research and innovation weaknesses, should be offered. These services 
can assess and review the innovation capabilities of private companies, providing roadmaps 
for improvement. Additionally, clusters can be pivotal in promoting university-industry 
collaboration, essential for fostering innovation, knowledge transfer, and strengthening 
regional competitiveness. Clusters should actively encourage broader collaboration among 
public and private research and technology organizations, serving as catalysts for collaborative 
innovation activities between universities and industries.
Cluster specific Recommendations
A dominance of upstream activities is observed in almost all clusters. This may suggest 
reliance on raw material processing and intermediate production stages rather than focusing 
on higher-value end products, which can challenge enterprise competitiveness. 
Cluster Recommendations  Regions to focus on 
Textile 
Manufacturing 
and Apparel
 » SMEs in Textile Manufacturing should focus on high-
value product design, local branding, customisation, 
integrated supply chain services, and higher product 
quality. Overall, India’s GVC integration should move 
toward higher value-generating downstream activities 
such as readymade garments (or clothing or apparel.
 » To achieve these objectives without increasing costs, 
they should collaborate with overseas and Indian 
design schools, invest in new product technology, 
partner with high-end retail outlets, link supply chains 
electronically, and invest in capital equipment and local 
training institutions for process innovation, product 
management, and quality control.
 » The Economic Survey 2024 highlighted technological 
obsolescence as a significant contributor to problems 
in the textile and apparel industry. This necessitates 
investment in technology upgradation, especially in 
weaving and processing segments.
 » Improving the brand image of Indian apparel and 
garments is needed to increase the unit value 
realisation (UVR).
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in
 » Textile manufacturing in Surat, Panipat, 
Sant Ravidas Nagar, Ludhiana, Varanasi, 
Imphal East, Tiruppur, Namakkal, and 
Erode.
 » Apparel manufacturing in Tiruppur, 
Ludhiana, Haulakandi, Bangalore, Erode, 
Supaul, Coimbatore, Kaushambi, Gautam 
Buddha Nagar and Sant Ravidas Nagar
To ensure economies of scale happen, 
districts around these regions should 
become more competitive.