--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C47
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 58
Word Range: 12910 - 13246
Word Count: 337
--------------------

[Page 58]
58
Porter’s 
approach on 
Clusters 
Clusters are geographic concentrations of interconnected companies and institutions in a 
particular field. Clusters encompass an array of linked industries and other entities important 
to competition. Clusters also often extend downstream to channels and customers and 
laterally to manufacturers of complementary products and companies in industries related 
by skills, technologies, or common inputs (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New Economies of 
Competition, 1998).
A cluster is the manifestation 
of the diamond at work
Porter asserts that 
- (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New 
Economies of Competition, 1998)
Clusters exert a positive influence on competition in three 
primary ways. Firstly, they enhance the productivity of firms 
situated within the geographic confines of the cluster. Secondly, 
they serve as catalysts for innovation, driving its direction and 
pace, which underpins future growth in productivity. Lastly, 
they stimulate the formation of new enterprises, contributing 
to the cluster's expansion and reinforcement. Clusters make 
opportunities for innovation more visible and make innovations 
possible by aiding connections between stakeholders. (Porter 
M. E., Clusters and the New Economies of Competition, 1998).
Reasserting Porter’s definition of clusters: 
Clusters are not merely an agglomeration of firms 
but rather a proximate group of interconnected 
firms by commodities and complementarities. 
- (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New Economies of Competition, 1998).
It is a dynamic framework that places a strong emphasis on value creation and the 
enhancement of competitiveness (Neven & Dröge, 2001) . Moreover, a significant advantage 
of the Porter model is that it does not assume an initial starting point nor an ideal to be strived 
for (Neven & Dröge, 2001) ; instead, it proposes processes that make a cluster move from 
one stage to another. These attributes of the diamond model have made it an effective and 
widely adopted tool for the study of clusters nationally and internationally, especially SME 
competitiveness. 
The current interpretation of the Indian definition diverges from Porter's framework and the 
globally accepted definition of clusters by developed economies like the U.S. and European Union.