--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-102-C82
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-102
Page Range: Page 90 to Page 91
Word Range: 23304 - 23553
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 90]
90
Through a systematic comparative analysis, we assessed the scope and coverage of these 
initiatives. This methodological approach facilitated a nuanced evaluation of state-level 
policies, shedding light on their potential impact on the thriving MSME landscape in India. 
While we recognise the limitations inherent in our study, particularly our inability to conduct 
in-depth on-the-ground performance and implementation analyses of these policies, which 
consequently constrains our capacity to provide highly efficient policy recommendations for 
the states, the primary challenge we encountered during our analysis was the unavailability 
of comprehensive data regarding the execution of these policies. Our study would have been 
significantly more reflective of the actual on-the-ground conditions and outcomes of these 
schemes had there been access to high-quality data on the performance of these policies. 
However, our work can be taken as a very thorough first step towards making such an analysis 
of state policies and can lead to further research on the topic. 
Our research serves as an initial, comprehensive step towards 
understanding state policy impacts on MSMEs and paves the way for 
future studies, contingent on the availability of more detailed data on 
policy performance.

[Page 91]
91
13     The states with MSME policy are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, 
Odisha, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. Detailed appendix
There are some significant efforts made by a few states to promote MSME development in the 
country. However, there is a general lack of adequate emphasis on this sector among state 
governments. The evidence for the lack of emphasis lies in the fact that only 15 out of the 
28 states16  have a specialised MSME policy in the country; for the other 13 states, either the 
MSME sector forms a small part of the elaborate industrial policy, or there is the absence of 
MSME-specific policies in the state. Although there has been a lack of adequate focus from 
the states on the sector, the states have made some progress in providing some impetus to 
the MSME units, especially in recovering the costs of setting up new businesses. There is a 
capital investment subsidy provided to the states, usually up to 25%, that helps MSMEs set up 
their plant and machinery and covers major capital expenditure for the same. The Stamp duty 
exemption of up to 100% is being provided to the sector, which incentivises the firms to set up 
and eventually formalise. To ascertain that the MSMEs are producing quality products and able 
to market their product better, the firms are encouraged to get certified through subsidies 
and reimbursement for costs incurred for certification. In addition to the financial incentive, 
a single window clearance system is established to make the process simpler for the units. 
Introducing the Zero Defect Zero Effect (ZED) certification is a new concept in the policy space. 
Acquisition of the ZED certification helps the firms publicise the fact that they have sustainable 
production methods and are able to market their products better, especially in the foreign 
market. While the state government’s initiatives represent a positive step towards addressing 
the challenges faced by MSMEs in the country, these policies fall short of adequately 
addressing the fundamental issues that hinder their growth and success.