--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 2
Word Range: 1 - 1590
Word Count: 1,590
--------------------

[Page 1]
Special Issue Article
More Than Meets the Eye: Misconduct and
Decoupling Against Blockchain for Supply
Chain T ransparency
Leonardo Marques1, Dafne Morais 2 and Ana T erra3
Production and Operations Management
2025, V ol. 34(5) 1057–1075
© The Author(s) 2024
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/10591478231224928
journals.sagepub.com/home/pao
Abstract
The fashion industry has consistently ranked high in terms of its association with modern slavery. While scandals like the Rana
Plaza incident have focused the world’s attention on Asia, in Brazil, over 35,000 people have been rescued from conditions
analogous to slavery in the past 15 years. Outsourcing and the underlying social structures that blur the implementation
of outsourcing are central to this problem. Fashion supply chains are highly fragmented and labour intensive, exhibiting
power asymmetry and informality. Although supply chain research has focused on how focal ﬁrms can control or improve
supplier practices, this study examines focal ﬁrm misconduct and decoupling. Our research presents an intervention aimed
at developing a blockchain solution to create a census of fashion working conditions in Brazil. The project included two non-
governmental organisations, two fashion brands and their suppliers, the fashion retail association, a blockchain start-up and
the research team (18 organisations). We contribute to both theory and practice, revealing that the blockchain’s potential to
ease transaction costs is outweighed by governance costs related to third-party supervision. We show that focal ﬁrms justify
unfair purchasing practices via victimisation and diverting attention from themselves to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and
suppliers (‘not behaving as expected’), unveiling how these drivers of organisational misconduct lead to supplier decoupling
(means–end) and focal ﬁrm decoupling (policy–practice). Such underlying social structures sustain inaction or , at best, advance
focal ﬁrms’ visibility of their supply chains while offering no true transparency to the broader society.
Keywords
Modern slavery, supply chain transparency, decoupling, organisational misconduct, blockchain
Date received 1 November 2021; accepted 2 October 2023 after six revisions
Handling Editors: Sajad Fayezi, Amy V . Benstead, Stefan Gold, Robert Klassen and Luk Van Wassenhove
1 Introduction
Modern slavery increased by 10 % from 2016 to 2021 and
now affects over 49 million people, with over 17 million in
the private economy (International Labor Organization et al.,
2022). Fashion, which employs one in six people on the planet,
is among the top-ranked industries. It is a low-technology
and labour-intensive ﬁeld that offers low entry barriers to
new and informal suppliers while hosting modern slavery-
related issues (Zorzini et al., 2015). In the fashion industry,
outsourcing sewing in garment production is a common prac-
tice for reducing cost and transparency (Perry et al., 2014).
However, outsourcing along supply chain tiers often leads to
informal and hidden contracting schemes (Nath et al., 2020;
Soundararajan et al., 2021).
Major scandals in the fashion industry such as the Rana
Plaza incident have focused the world’s attention on Asia
(Wang, 2020), but modern slavery persists across the Global
South as well. In Brazil, for example, infringements related
to modern slavery remain frequent. Brazil is a country that
contains all levels of the fashion supply network – ﬁbre
cultivation, weaving, manufacturing and retailing – and this
industry generates around 90 billion US dollars annually (top
ﬁve globally
1). This economic vigour distracts attention from
the fact that outsourcing involves blurred boundaries between
focal ﬁrms and suppliers who are dependent on them but do
1Supply Chain Management, Audencia Business School, Nantes, France
2Centro Universitário FEI, São Paulo, Brazil
3Instituto Coppead de Administração, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Corresponding author:
Leonardo Marques, Supply Chain Management, Audencia Business School,
8 Route de la Jonelière, Nantes 44312, France.
Email: lmarques@audencia.com

[Page 2]
1058 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
not have appropriate contracts. This blurred liability hinders
law enforcement, which is crucial for controlling modern slav-
ery. While European legislation on supply chain due diligence
has evolved consistently, in less privileged countries, regula-
tory progression has been less steady. In the context of Brazil,
modern slavery legislation has experienced setbacks during
the 2016–2022 period. The most important tool, ‘The Slav-
ery Dirty List’ [free translation], was attacked by corporate
lobbyists, who called for its discontinuation in 2016, a matter
that escalated to the Supreme Court in 2020.
2 A recent study
mapped 208 legal processes heard by the Brazilian Superior
Labour Court (2013–2018) associating modern slavery condi-
tions to fashion outsourcing. The study showed that penalty
fees were often issued but unpaid. In 2018 alone, 30 ﬁrms
were ﬁned the equivalent of 3.5 million US dollars, but only
0.3 % of this amount had been paid by 2020 (Marques et al.,
2021). In recent years, the numbers have worsened. According
to the International Labor Organization, over 35,000 people
had been rescued from modern slavery in Brazil during the
2000–2015 period, but 600 of them ended up in similar condi-
tions at least a second time (International Labor Organization,
2018). In São Paulo, Brazil’s largest city, a 200 % increase in
modern slavery was recorded in 2021, when the COVID-19
pandemic served as an excuse for a slowdown on monitoring.
3
Supply chain transparency and monitoring are keys to
ﬁghting modern slavery. Although major scandals tend to
attract societal and academic attention, modern slavery per-
sists as a gradual, continuous threat that often ﬁnds a home
in the multitiered nature of supply chains (Busse et al., 2016;
Tachizawa and W ong, 2015). Since the early 1990s, supply
chain transparency has slowly evolved based on supplier audits
(Stevenson and Cole, 2018). Focal ﬁrms may either engage in
monitoring themselves and/or resort to third parties to achieve
audit capillarity, yet problem detection at the sub-supplier level
is limited (Benstead et al., 2018; Nath et al., 2020). Audit
schemes tend to work based on annual local visits. Unique
traits of the Brazil context include the low traceability of
buyer–supplier contracts, spread informality and lenient leg-
islation. In fact, Brazilian legislation favours outsourcing and
small-scale sewing cells with no more than 30 workers each.
Hence, suppliers often split production across multiple sewing
cells to beneﬁt from tax advantages. Such complexity and
dispersion make audit schemes ineffective, providing fertile
conditions for modern slavery that are often vexed, dynamic
and partially hidden (Christ et al., 2020). However, there is
scant research on the failure of audit schemes or alternative
solutions for overcoming this issue.
As transparency starts with traceability, blockchain tech-
nology (henceforth blockchain) has emerged as a holy
grail (Mithas et al., 2022; Sunar and Swaminathan, 2022).
Blockchain research began in 2008 in information systems
scholarship, and publication output exploded in 2016 (Queiroz
et al., 2019). By 2018, the ﬁrst theoretical studies and reviews
had hit the operations and supply chain management (OSCM)
ﬁeld. Treiblmaier (2018) and Saberi et al. (2018) proposed
transaction costs as a lens to understand how the blockchain
could reshape supply chains. However, empirical work has
only recently been published, and applications are mostly
led by start-ups (see: Benstead et al., 2022; Danese et al.,
2021). Most importantly, critical research on the trade-offs
of blockchain implementation is even scarcer (Murray et al.,
2021).
Our study begins by asking the following research question
(RQ1): To what extent can blockchain reduce transaction costs
while improving supply chain transparency?
However, blockchain initiatives to improve supply chain
transparency will likely face resistance. Such resistance could
relate to the emerging technology itself (Sodhi et al., 2022)
or to the consequences of higher supply chain transparency
(Chen et al., 2022). One particular form of organisational
resistance to new policies that has been increasingly discussed
in the OSCM ﬁeld is decoupling (Nath et al., 2020). Decou-
pling can occur between policy and practice, for example,
between those who set the policy and those who manage daily
practice. As long as the policy pleases external stakeholders,
what the organisation does internally actually goes untouched
(Barratt and Choi, 2007). Decoupling can also be expressed
as a gap between means and ends, where policies are indeed
implemented but are only weakly related to daily practices
(Bromley and Powell, 2012). Initiatives that improve trans-
parency in complex and hidden supply chains may face both
forms of decoupling as a reaction (Wijen, 2014).
Modern slavery is ‘not a single, one-off emergency but
rather a gradual, continuous threat’, which ‘coupled with the
hidden and complex nature of’ supply chains may lead to
inaction (Stevenson, 2022, p. 133). The Global South institu-
tional context further favours decoupling. However, previous
research has only focused on supplier decoupling (Huq and
Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020; Silvestre, 2015). Our
research expands the scope of the analysis to both focal ﬁrms’
and suppliers’ complementary forms of decoupling – and,
most importantly, the reasons behind such dynamics.
W e therefore complement RQ1 with RQ2:Why does decou-
pling emerge as a reaction to supply chain transparency
against modern slavery?
Our study was conducted as intervention-based research
(IBR; Hasle and V ang, 2021), using the fashion supply net-
work as the level of analysis. The intervention included fashion
brands and their supply chains, a blockchain start-up and
non-governmental organisations (NGOs), in line with calls
for interactions with less traditional stakeholders (Marques,
2019). By expanding the transaction costs lens from the dyad
to network level, we found that the blockchain governance
costs outweigh the expected savings in local audits. Elabo-
rating on the drivers of organisational misconduct and decou-
pling, we mapped how multitiered supply chains may actually
be used to conceal focal ﬁrm misconduct (Kim et al., 2019),
helping fashion supply chain actors buffer practices to protect
themselves from exposure and outside inspection (Bromley
and Powell, 2012). As a result, decoupling was exposed both