--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 13 to Page 14
Word Range: 10729 - 12569
Word Count: 1,841
--------------------

[Page 13]
Marques et al. 1069
as midﬁelders, buffering problems from tier-2 sewing cells.
Audit failure was clearly occurring.
Previous research has emphasised focal ﬁrms’ need to
embrace coopetition (Benstead et al., 2018) and work through
ﬁrm associations to improve supply chain transparency (Vil-
lena, 2018). In our study, both coopetition and a strong asso-
ciation were in place, but the problem persisted. Given this
scenario, blockchains would seem to be a promising solution
to ease the problem (Kshetri, 2018; Saberi et al., 2018). Schol-
ars have emphasised the potential of blockchain solutions to
automate ﬂows while substituting for trust and adding trace-
ability in a frictionless manner. Thus, they are particularly
capable of reducing transaction costs. In the fashion supply
network, a blockchain solution could reduce audit costs, as
digitalisation would provide standardisation and increase the
frequency of control. However, our intervention exposed the
need for complex governance that produced unforeseen trans-
action costs.
Similar to studies on blockchain use to prevent counter-
feiting, we identiﬁed blockchain costs related to data security
(Danese et al., 2021) and trade-offs between implementation
and transaction costs (Pun et al., 2021). Such implementa-
tion costs took the form of ‘oracle costs’, that is, third-party
experts to oversee blockchain smart contracts on a regular
basis (Murray et al., 2021). Such governance costs would
thus counterbalance the reduction in local visits, at least in
the short to medium term. Therefore, while blockchain might
reduce costs related to local audits, unforeseen governance
costs/investments could overshadow the expected economy.
Blockchain governance would only become viable if imple-
mented on an industry scale, where cooperation could avoid
overburdening isolated focal ﬁrms. These conclusions led us
to our ﬁrst proposition:
P
ROPOSITION 1. Blockchain can save audit costs, but gover-
nance costs outweigh such savings without industry scale and
commitment.
Questioning why industry-level implementation did not
occur in a scenario with a strong association led us to shift
from mode 1 (RQ1) to mode 2 (RQ2) and explore ‘evidence
for the development of new theories not considered prior to
the intervention’ (Oliva, 2019, p. 712).
5.2 Unveiling Decoupling and Organisational
Misconduct (RQ2)
Beyond facing cost trade-offs, the intervention was hampered
by emerging resistance in the form of decoupling. Thus, we
now address RQ2: Why does decoupling emerge as a reaction
to supply chain transparency against modern slavery?
Supplier resistance did not emerge without reason. Suppli-
ers’ refusal to take part in the intervention was a consequence
of the focal ﬁrms’ unfair purchasing practices. Such practices
included, on the one hand, severe delay penalties for suppliers
and, on the other hand, order instability and cancellations,
which led to disruptions in production, urgent requests, and
very limited demand predictability (Chen et al., 2022; Meehan
and Pinnington, 2021; Muratore and Marques, 2021). Suppli-
ers thus had to live in a state of permanent tension, complying
with price pressures and absorbing demand instability while
accepting workloads and costs from parallel audit schemes.
Redundancy did not ensure control while overburdening sup-
pliers. As the focal ﬁrms simultaneously persisted in their
unfair purchasing practices and tightened audit schemes, the
suppliers felt doubly pressured. Such hypocrisy enabled the
focal ﬁrms to outsource the risk, responsibility, and costs of
modern slavery upstream to suppliers (Glover and Touboulic,
2020), which in turn led to supplier resistance in the form of
decoupling.
Supplier behaviour emerged in the form of means–end
decoupling. Suppliers found themselves with limited agency
to respond to focal ﬁrms’ impositions (Carmagnac et al.,
2022). Since suppliers were economically dependent on focal
ﬁrms, they responded to increasing audit pressures with
means–end decoupling in two ways. First, tier-1 suppliers
acted as buffers to tier-2 suppliers’ non-compliance. Tier-1
suppliers could not simply cancel tier-2 sewing cells that failed
to comply, or they would not meet the cost pressures. Instead,
tier-2 suppliers’ non-compliance was hidden or at least delayed
from exposure to the focal ﬁrms.
By outsourcing the burden of modern slavery mitigation
to suppliers (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021) while simultane-
ously sustaining price pressures, focal ﬁrms closed their eyes
to informal sub-contracting and work instability (Soundarara-
jan et al., 2021), ‘creating a dangerous cascade of unfair pay’
(Chen et al., 2022, p. 4306). Our second proposition indicates
the joint effects of unfair purchasing practices and growing
audit demands:
P
ROPOSITION 2. The combination of increasing audit costs
for suppliers and unfair purchasing practices of focal
ﬁrms leads to supplier resistance and buffering of non-
compliant practices which conﬁgures supplier decoupling
(means–end).
Unfair purchasing practices seemed to spread across the
industry. Prior research has suggested that coopetition is a
driver of transparency (Benstead et al., 2018; Villena, 2018).
Here, we observed another facet of coopetition: the legiti-
mation of unfair purchasing practices. To understand such
dynamics, we resorted to drivers of organisational misconduct.
Greve et al. (2010) presented a robust review of organisational
misconduct, stating that ‘misconduct is a behaviour that ﬂour-
ishes where legal, ethical, and social aspects have blurred lines
rather than clear limits’ (Greve et al., 2010, p. 36). Recently,
the OSCM scholarship has employed the lens of misconduct
to draw attention to practices that are widespread and persis-
tent, despite their negative consequences for society (Skilton
and Bernardes, 2022).

[Page 14]
1070 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
The ﬁrst driver identiﬁed in this study was coded as ratio-
nal choice, which emerged when ﬁrms justiﬁed delaying costs
to prevent misconduct by downplaying their consequences
(Greve et al., 2010). In our case, focal ﬁrms blamed con-
sumers’ unwillingness to pay premiums for transparency as
a reason to delay action: ‘ Have you ever heard the phrase:
Sweatshop is wrong unless the shoes are cute? ’ Despite their
share of responsibility, consumers were not heard, consulted,
or engaged with (Carmagnac et al., 2022). Portraying them as
greedy and unaware helped justify focal ﬁrms’ inaction rather
than taking ownership of the responsibility to inform con-
sumers (Chen et al., 2022). Moreover, focal ﬁrms used alleged
consumer unwillingness to pay and volatility as arguments for
passing price pressure and demand instability downstream in
their supply chains.
The second identiﬁed driver reﬂected a strain (tension),
which was observed in the framing of goals as unachiev-
able (Greve et al., 2010; Wijen, 2014). In our case, focal
ﬁrms diverted attention from their own practices and blamed
supplier behaviour. Tier-1 suppliers were framed as the ones
responsible for negotiating with tier-2 suppliers, as if price
pressures from the brands to tier-1 suppliers would not trans-
late to such pressures to tier-2 suppliers. In addition, tier-2
suppliers were blamed for accepting demand beyond their
capacity, thereby fragilising the supply chain. The focal ﬁrms
reasoned that none of these issues were linked to their own
unfair purchasing practices. If the cause was external to the
focal ﬁrm, supply chain transparency could be framed as
unachievable (Doorey, 2011).
The third identiﬁed driver reﬂected a victimisation culture.
Culture can permit misconduct by socially weighing victims’
claims or diverting attention from the original victim (Greve
et al., 2010). This notion echoes climate change deniers, for
example, when they downplay the impact of carbon emis-
sions on society to justify corporate inaction. Modern slavery
research has suggested that the efﬁciency paradigm supports
focal ﬁrm victimisation (Caruana et al., 2020). If focal ﬁrms
could see value in ethical behaviour and transparency, some
would advance towards supply chain transparency (Stevenson
and Cole, 2018). However, if they jointly shared a common
culture of denial, homogeneity would lead to inaction at the
industry level.
Together, the drivers of rational choice, goal strain, and
victimisation culture supported a discourse to absolve unfair
purchasing practices by blaming the others: consumers, sup-
pliers, and ﬁerce competition. Note that, on the one hand, the
competitive side of coopetition led to price pressures, and, on
the other hand, the cooperative side of coopetition diffused
misconduct. The highly ambiguous nature of modern slav-
ery, linked to the lack of transparency, further contributed to
inaction (Stevenson, 2022). Suppliers were thus left with no
alternatives. While OSCM research has often considered how
focal ﬁrms can prevent opportunism by suppliers (Asif, 2020;
Nath et al., 2020; Villena, 2018; Villena and Gioia, 2018), few
studies have investigated focal ﬁrm misconduct. Our ﬁndings
led to a proposition that captures these dynamics:
P
ROPOSITION 3. The victimisation of focal ﬁrms and diver-
sion of attention to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and sup-
pliers (‘not behaving as expected’) conﬁgure the drivers of
organisational misconduct that are used to justify focal ﬁrms’
unfair purchasing practices.
Besides supporting unfair purchasing practices, the identi-
ﬁed drivers of organisational misconduct also led to focal ﬁrm
decoupling. While supplier decoupling has been addressed
recently (Nath et al., 2020), factors related to focal ﬁrm
behaviour have been overlooked. In particular, focal ﬁrm
power in the supply chain should lead to higher responsibility,
not the reverse (Asif, 2020). Such a power imbalance became
clear in the fashion supply chain, cascading from the brand to
tier-1 suppliers, then from tier-1 to tier-2 suppliers, and ﬁnally
to workers at the end of the supply chain, who are exposed to
modern slavery conditions.
Our study revealed that focal ﬁrm decoupling took a differ-
ent form than supplier decoupling. While supplier behaviour
was characterised by means–end decoupling, decoupling at the
focal ﬁrms took the shape of a policy–practice gap. The pol-
icy–practice decoupling reﬂected symbolic adoption. While a
transparency policy was highlighted in discourse and corpo-
rate reporting (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021), weak imple-
mentation led to little or no change in daily routines (Bromley
and Powell, 2012).
When the mobile app was developed to allow full sup-
ply chain transparency, the focal ﬁrms’ responses shifted to
a stepwise approach. This meant improving the visibility of
focal ﬁrms to their supply chains without providing trans-
parency for stakeholders, which has been deﬁned as a ‘secrecy
strategy’ (Marshall et al., 2016). From a policy perspective,
transparency was a core value for many focal ﬁrms in the asso-
ciation. However, their practices involved visibility and control
without transparency. As such, the failure to comply resulted
in harsh consequences for the suppliers but no consequences
for the focal ﬁrms. In other words, without supply chain trans-
parency, blockchain could be used to control suppliers, but no
link between supplier non-compliance and brands would be
made public. Non-compliant suppliers could be excluded from
the association list, but no speciﬁc links between each brand
and these non-complaint suppliers would be made. This served
as a ‘smokescreen’ (Doorey, 2011). Without a clear timeline
on how and when to progress from visibility to transparency,
visibility became an end in its own right rather than a means
to transparency (Asif, 2020).
By transferring the responsibility for modern slavery to
supplier practices (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021) and con-
sumer choices (Chen et al., 2022), focal ﬁrms could divert
attention to weaker links in the supply chain – a hypocriti-
cal practice that decouples discourse from practice (Glover
and Touboulic, 2020). In our fourth proposition, we elabo-
rate on how focal ﬁrms’ response to transparency pressures
included buffering their supply chain practices and protecting
them from exposure/outside inspection (Bromley and Powell,
2012):