--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C54
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 14020 - 14350
Word Count: 331
--------------------

[Page 15]
Marques et al. 1071
Figure 2. Conceptual framework.
PROPOSITION 4. The victimisation of focal ﬁrms and diver-
sion of attention to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and sup-
pliers (‘not behaving as expected’) conﬁgure the drivers of
organisational misconduct that support focal ﬁrm decoupling
(policy–practice).
Although the mechanisms depicted in Propositions 1–4 do
not ensure modern slavery, they eroded the assurance that
modern slavery could be under control. Complexity related to
the fact that in isolation, each brand was not to blame. Rather,
industry-wide practices produced price pressure and demand
instability, which hurt the supply chain, pushing suppliers to
engage with informality (Soundararajan et al., 2021) and thus
providing fertile soil for modern slavery. However, blurred lia-
bility and focal ﬁrm practices that eroded margins, intensiﬁed
pressure on suppliers, and could lead to working condition
infringements were less likely to be systemically challenged.
As a result, focal ﬁrms did not engage in reﬂections regard-
ing their own commercial practices (Meehan and Pinnington,
2021).
Modern slavery instances tend to spread in the supply
chain, worsening during crises, such as COVID-19 (Cole
and Shirgholami, 2021), but advancing as a gradual, con-
tinuous threat (Stevenson, 2022). In this scenario, supply
chain transparency is promised and implied but never truly
conﬁrmed (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021). Our ﬁnal propo-
sition summarises decoupling’s impact on the risk of modern
slavery:
P
ROPOSITION 5. Supplier decoupling (means–ends) and
focal ﬁrm decoupling (policy–practice) increase the risk of
modern slavery.
In Figure 2, we return to the iceberg analogy, with the ﬁve
propositions and a conceptual framework.
6 Conclusion
Thus far, little research has focused on the justiﬁcations that
focal ﬁrms provide for not investing in supply chain trans-
parency. The OSCM scholarship will continue to provide an
‘unhelpful caricature’ of the problem without an in-depth anal-
ysis of ‘the organisational and supply chain dynamics that give
rise to it; and the business actors and models through which
it ﬂourishes’ (Caruana et al., 2020, p. 252). Our study sheds
light on the dynamics that allow organisational misconduct
and decoupling to persist, particularly in the Global South
context (Huq and Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020). In this
way, we offer a methodological contribution to our ﬁeld by
conducting IBR.
Only extreme cases of opportunism become public. By
the same token, most occurrences of misconduct pass unno-
ticed. In both cases, most incidents are opaque, as (a) per-
petrators try to hide them due to social desirability, and (b)
potential informants and whistle-blowers often see the costs
as higher than the beneﬁts of denouncing. However, there
is a key difference between the two: While opportunism
looks at wrongdoing due to self-interest, making it an inside-
out perspective (Lumineau and Oliveira, 2020), organisa-
tional misconduct looks at wrongdoing as socially constructed,
therefore making it an outside-in perspective (Greve et al.,
2010).
When misconduct is a widespread practice, addressing it
requires systemic interventions. Focal ﬁrms are the supply
chain leader, engaging in explicit coordination and hold-
ing the most power. Thus, as much as they can support
small suppliers, they can also impose on them disadvan-
tages if misconduct is accepted (Glover and Touboulic, 2020).
Although our ﬁeld has devoted increasing attention to the
role of social dynamics (Kim et al., 2011; Marques et al.,
2020), there is scant research on how misconduct becomes