--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C47
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 12219 - 12468
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 13]
Marques et al. 1069
as midﬁelders, buffering problems from tier-2 sewing cells.
Audit failure was clearly occurring.
Previous research has emphasised focal ﬁrms’ need to
embrace coopetition (Benstead et al., 2018) and work through
ﬁrm associations to improve supply chain transparency (Vil-
lena, 2018). In our study, both coopetition and a strong asso-
ciation were in place, but the problem persisted. Given this
scenario, blockchains would seem to be a promising solution
to ease the problem (Kshetri, 2018; Saberi et al., 2018). Schol-
ars have emphasised the potential of blockchain solutions to
automate ﬂows while substituting for trust and adding trace-
ability in a frictionless manner. Thus, they are particularly
capable of reducing transaction costs. In the fashion supply
network, a blockchain solution could reduce audit costs, as
digitalisation would provide standardisation and increase the
frequency of control. However, our intervention exposed the
need for complex governance that produced unforeseen trans-
action costs.
Similar to studies on blockchain use to prevent counter-
feiting, we identiﬁed blockchain costs related to data security
(Danese et al., 2021) and trade-offs between implementation
and transaction costs (Pun et al., 2021). Such implementa-
tion costs took the form of ‘oracle costs’, that is, third-party
experts to oversee blockchain smart contracts on a regular
basis (Murray et al., 2021). Such governance costs would
thus counterbalance the reduction in local visits, at least in
the short to medium term. Therefore, while blockchain might
reduce costs related to local audits, unforeseen governance
costs/investments could overshadow the expected economy.
Blockchain governance would only become viable if imple-
mented on an industry scale, where cooperation could avoid
overburdening isolated focal ﬁrms. These conclusions led us
to our ﬁrst proposition:
P
ROPOSITION 1. Blockchain can save audit costs, but gover-
nance costs outweigh such savings without industry scale and
commitment.
Questioning why industry-level implementation did not
occur in a scenario with a strong association led us to shift
from mode 1 (RQ1) to mode 2 (RQ2) and explore ‘evidence
for the development of new theories not considered prior to
the intervention’ (Oliva, 2019, p. 712).
5.2 Unveiling Decoupling and Organisational
Misconduct (RQ2)
Beyond facing cost trade-offs, the intervention was hampered
by emerging resistance in the form of decoupling. Thus, we
now address RQ2: Why does decoupling emerge as a reaction
to supply chain transparency against modern slavery?
Supplier resistance did not emerge without reason. Suppli-
ers’ refusal to take part in the intervention was a consequence
of the focal ﬁrms’ unfair purchasing practices. Such practices
included, on the one hand, severe delay penalties for suppliers
and, on the other hand, order instability and cancellations,
which led to disruptions in production, urgent requests, and
very limited demand predictability (Chen et al., 2022; Meehan
and Pinnington, 2021; Muratore and Marques, 2021). Suppli-
ers thus had to live in a state of permanent tension, complying
with price pressures and absorbing demand instability while
accepting workloads and costs from parallel audit schemes.
Redundancy did not ensure control while overburdening sup-
pliers. As the focal ﬁrms simultaneously persisted in their
unfair purchasing practices and tightened audit schemes, the
suppliers felt doubly pressured. Such hypocrisy enabled the
focal ﬁrms to outsource the risk, responsibility, and costs of
modern slavery upstream to suppliers (Glover and Touboulic,
2020), which in turn led to supplier resistance in the form of
decoupling.
Supplier behaviour emerged in the form of means–end
decoupling. Suppliers found themselves with limited agency
to respond to focal ﬁrms’ impositions (Carmagnac et al.,
2022). Since suppliers were economically dependent on focal
ﬁrms, they responded to increasing audit pressures with
means–end decoupling in two ways. First, tier-1 suppliers
acted as buffers to tier-2 suppliers’ non-compliance. Tier-1
suppliers could not simply cancel tier-2 sewing cells that failed
to comply, or they would not meet the cost pressures. Instead,
tier-2 suppliers’ non-compliance was hidden or at least delayed
from exposure to the focal ﬁrms.
By outsourcing the burden of modern slavery mitigation
to suppliers (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021) while simultane-
ously sustaining price pressures, focal ﬁrms closed their eyes
to informal sub-contracting and work instability (Soundarara-
jan et al., 2021), ‘creating a dangerous cascade of unfair pay’
(Chen et al., 2022, p. 4306). Our second proposition indicates
the joint effects of unfair purchasing practices and growing
audit demands:
P
ROPOSITION 2. The combination of increasing audit costs
for suppliers and unfair purchasing practices of focal
ﬁrms leads to supplier resistance and buffering of non-
compliant practices which conﬁgures supplier decoupling
(means–end).
Unfair purchasing practices seemed to spread across the
industry. Prior research has suggested that coopetition is a
driver of transparency (Benstead et al., 2018; Villena, 2018).
Here, we observed another facet of coopetition: the legiti-
mation of unfair purchasing practices. To understand such
dynamics, we resorted to drivers of organisational misconduct.
Greve et al. (2010) presented a robust review of organisational
misconduct, stating that ‘misconduct is a behaviour that ﬂour-
ishes where legal, ethical, and social aspects have blurred lines
rather than clear limits’ (Greve et al., 2010, p. 36). Recently,
the OSCM scholarship has employed the lens of misconduct
to draw attention to practices that are widespread and persis-
tent, despite their negative consequences for society (Skilton
and Bernardes, 2022).