--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C18
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 4492 - 4741
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
Marques et al. 1061
and daily organisational practices. However, only recently has
OSCM scholarship begun to consider decoupling (Barratt and
Choi, 2007), and most recent research has investigated decou-
pling in suppliers’ response to pressures related to sustainabil-
ity (Huq and Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020). W e centre
our analysis on decoupling while expanding the scope to the
interplay between focal ﬁrms’ and suppliers’ complementary
forms of decoupling.
Decoupling has been conceptualised at two levels:
policy–practice and means–ends. It is valuable to distinguish
between these two forms because of their varied conse-
quences for organisations (Bromley and Powell, 2012). The
policy–practice gap exposes the misalignment between policy
and practice over time. Policy–practice decoupling allows
organisations to adopt conﬂicting policies in response to
external pressures without disturbing their daily operations
(Bromley and Powell, 2012). Often, decoupling occurs across
the organisational hierarchy: Those in charge of policy
please external stakeholders, while those in charge of daily
activities continue to perform untouched (Barratt and Choi,
2007). Such isolation in daily activities has been framed as
‘buffering’ (Bromley and Powell, 2012), that is, as long as
policy adoption alone builds legitimacy, real change can be
delayed. Arguments for delaying action include a lack of
capacity and the need for time and costs to adapt (Nath et al.,
2020).
In means–end decoupling, policies are implemented that
have a weak relationship with the intended outcomes (Asif,
2020). Organisations are inherently complex. Within that com-
plexity, organisational participants may consciously recog-
nise that some actions are of limited utility but still pur-
sue them to please some stakeholders (Bromley and Powell,
2012). The allocation of resources between practices that
only aim at legitimacy and core practices disperses energy.
A lack of transparency increases the potential of dissoci-
ation between means and ends and eventually renders the
implementation of sustainability standards impossible (Wijen,
2014).
Focal ﬁrms that prioritise their reputation will often trans-
fer responsibility for issues related to modern slavery to their
suppliers (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021). In other words,
they deﬁne policy, but action is ‘outsourced’ to their supply
chain, thereby overburdening suppliers. This is probably why
previous research has focused on supplier decoupling, specif-
ically as means–end decoupling. Suppliers may engage in a
concealment strategy, attempting to prevent nonconformity
with sustainability practices by deliberately hiding their vio-
lations. Alternatively, suppliers may engage in a consensual
strategy that entails attempting to implement partial sustain-
ability practices by negotiating with other actors (Nath et al.,
2020). In fact, when focal ﬁrms ‘outsource’ an action to their
supply chain, they are also engaging in decoupling, but this
issue has been less addressed in the literature.
Decoupling (in both forms) often occurs due to infor-
mation asymmetry between ﬁrms and their stakeholders
(Huq and Stevenson, 2018). Supply chain transparency may
reduce information asymmetry (Chen et al., 2022). In addi-
tion, blockchain solutions can ease the transaction costs of
implementing supply chain transparency (Saberi et al., 2018;
Treiblmaier, 2018). However, if resistance arises from sup-
ply chain actors (in the form of decoupling), blockchains may
fail to support supply chain transparency, resulting in the per-
sistence of modern slavery risks. Our intervention aims to
understand the extent to which blockchain can ease transaction
costs and enhance supply chain transparency (RQ1) and why
transparency to mitigate modern slavery is met with resistance
(RQ2).
3 Methodology
3.1 Intervention-Based Research
Recent OSCM research has urged scholars to eschew the
‘quintessential ivory tower syndrome’ (van Aken et al., 2016,
p. 1) and critically engage with the problems they study
(Touboulic et al., 2020). The former calls for effective-
ness over explanation, designing/testing over theorisation,
and pragmatic validity over theoretical validity (van Aken
et al., 2016). The latter invites engagement over observa-
tion, exploring researcher agency and embeddedness over
time to allow access to what is usually inaccessible, as well
as critical thinking, reﬂexivity, and contextualisation ‘by de-
privileging the criterion of generalisability’ (Touboulic et al.,
2020, p. 10).
IBR is a methodological umbrella that can help answer
those calls. IBR can aim to solve a socio-technical problem
in a given context while reﬂecting on the theoretical implica-
tions of such endeavours (Fendt and Kaminska-Labb ́e, 2011;
Iivari and V enable, 2009). Although historically marginalised,
IBR has received growing attention in recent years, resulting in
guidance for researchers (Chandrasekaran et al., 2020). Hav-
ing considered different guidelines for IBR, this study follows
Oliva (2019, p. 710), seeking to ‘explore the role that inter-
ventions (the ultimate manifestation of design science) can
play in testing and developing theory (the ultimate goal of an
academic endeavour)’. According to this framework, IBR is
structured into two modes of enquiry. Mode 1 is grounded
in action research and can test and expand theories (Check-
land, 1985), while mode 2 holds explanatory power grounded
in a process perspective, which can lead to theory development
(Langley, 1999). In other words, an intervention can explore
why the chosen theory cannot explain the phenomenon?(mode
1) and why the system behaves in an unexpected manner?
(mode 2).
Along our journey, unexpected results allowed us to explore
both modes of enquiry. In Appendix 2 (see: e-companion),t h e
iceberg analogy is used to show that mode 1 occurred at the
surface, that is, investigating blockchain and transaction costs
(RQ1), whereas mode 2 delved deeper into the bottom of the
iceberg, exploring the decoupling and misconduct that led to
interruption of the intervention (RQ2).

[Page 6]
1062 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
Mode 1 reﬂects action research, which favours practical
utility and encourages change (i.e., a successful intervention)
while also yielding insights for theory elaboration. The action
researcher simultaneously takes action and creates knowl-
edge (Touboulic and Walker, 2015a). The practical utility of
this study was the signiﬁcant involvement in the development
of a mobile app to survey working conditions. Y et, midway
through the intervention, we recognised the misﬁt between
the adopted theory and our data, as resistance prevented the
blockchain from advancing. Unpacking audit and governance
costs enabled a granular revision of the total costs involved.
In the Section 4, we provide evidence of why the theory was
insufﬁcient to fully inform the intervention and how it failed
to anticipate speciﬁc developments. In Oliva’s (2019) terms,
we reﬂected on situation S to inform why theory T was not
capable of explaining the intervention.
After identifying the misﬁt, the research team turned its
attention to mode 2 or why the system behaved unexpect-
edly. The focus slowly shifted from action research to process
research, where theory elaboration is central and practical util-
ity is secondary. Although we were still involved in the project
report and relationship with other stakeholders, our attention
was increasingly oriented towards explaining why the new
situation S’ differed from the expected situation S*. In pro-
cess research, abductive reasoning is utilised to combine the
inside-out perspective of transaction costs with the outside-in
perspective of organisational misconduct (Greve et al., 2010)
and decoupling (Bromley and Powell, 2012). W e had entered
the project aware of the high unpredictability inherent to social
and technical dimensions of the intervention, but we were
quite surprised by the results.
3.2 Intervention Management and Data Collection
This study involves IBR focused on a particular industry in
which modern slavery risks are salient, the fashion indus-
try, and a particular country, Brazil, a representative of Latin
America and the Global South. The Brazilian fashion sup-
ply chain can be fully local, from farm to store, and yet
exhibits high levels of opacity. Fashion brands normally out-
source their production to tier-1 suppliers, who take charge
of buying fabric, cutting fabric, and ﬁnishing the product
while re-outsourcing the sewing to tier-2 sewing cells. While
the conditions at the fashion brands and tier-1 suppliers are
usually adequate (often above standards), workers in sub-
suppliers often endure precarious conditions. There is higher
turnover, and tier-2 suppliers eventually informally outsource
production they cannot manage to other sewing cells, thus cre-
ating informal/illegal tier-3 suppliers. The further away the
brands are from the consumer, the higher the risk of mod-
ern slavery. Multitiered outsourcing often portrays suppliers
in a dependent relationship with focal ﬁrms as intermittent
(non-dependent) to shield those focal ﬁrms from problems
when modern slavery is uncovered. Such blurred liability has
been overcome in some cases in which employee testimonials,
contracts, and invoices were used as evidence, but cases that
reach the court and lead to convictions represent only a tiny
fraction of the reality (Marques et al., 2021).
The goal of the intervention was to develop and pilot test
a mobile app that could invite workers to participate in a
monthly census of their working conditions. A key step of IBR
is researcher–client agreement. Unlike a non-participatory
approach, action research entails real interaction between the
researcher and the loci of the research (Iivari and V enable,
2009). This project was led by the research team after an
offer of funding from a prominent NGO in the industry,
here referred to as NGO-A, in December 2017. NGO-A was
founded by the owners of a major European fashion retail
chain that has been operating in Brazil since the 1980s. NGO-
A is dedicated to promoting transparency and systemic change
by funding projects that aim to change the fashion supply
chain towards sustainability and transparency. Engagement
with NGO-A automatically brought Brand-A into the project
to provide us with access to ﬁeldwork. The research team and
NGO-A identiﬁed and invited a blockchain start-up focused
on developing blockchain solutions oriented towards scalable
social change. Together, the research team and the start-up
constituted the project’s Core T eam.
The research project spanned from December 2017 to
March 2020. In December 2017, negotiations between
Researcher-A and the NGO-A, and the proposal was devel-
oped and signed in 2018. In January 2019, Researcher-B
joined the team, and the intervention lasted until March 2020,
when the expansion from the pilot to full implementation was
interrupted. Researcher-A was the project manager through-
out the full period. Researcher-A, Researcher-B, or both were
present at all data collection points, except after Researcher-C
joined the team in October 2019 and conducted the last round
of interviews.
The project plan consisted of involving two pilot supply
chains, each composed of one brand, two tier-1 suppliers, and
four tier-2 suppliers. In 2018, a second brand took part in the
research but dropped out in the ﬁrst month of project exe-
cution. Thus, the project kicked off in February 2019 with
only Supply Chain-A, while searching for a second brand (a
strict requirement of NGO-A). By June 2019, NGO-B and
Brand-B joined the project and provided some extra fund-
ing. NGO-B is a small-sized organisation but is recognised
for its work towards sustainability. Brand-B is a Brazilian
brand founded in the 1980s, with a much smaller scale and a
price ticket 7–9 times higher than that of Brand-A. Therefore,
the brands did not view themselves as competitors. Supply
Chain-B was formed by one focal ﬁrm, two tier-1 suppliers,
and three (instead of four) tier-2 suppliers. Non-disclosure
agreements (NDAs) were signed by all ﬁrms in both supply
chains.
Although both brands were leaders in sustainability and
transparency initiatives in the country, there were also valuable
differences between the two supply chains: different origins
(Brand-A is European and Brand-B is local), different sizes