--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 5
Word Range: 3992 - 4241
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
Marques et al. 1061
and daily organisational practices. However, only recently has
OSCM scholarship begun to consider decoupling (Barratt and
Choi, 2007), and most recent research has investigated decou-
pling in suppliers’ response to pressures related to sustainabil-
ity (Huq and Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020). W e centre
our analysis on decoupling while expanding the scope to the
interplay between focal ﬁrms’ and suppliers’ complementary
forms of decoupling.
Decoupling has been conceptualised at two levels:
policy–practice and means–ends. It is valuable to distinguish
between these two forms because of their varied conse-
quences for organisations (Bromley and Powell, 2012). The
policy–practice gap exposes the misalignment between policy
and practice over time. Policy–practice decoupling allows
organisations to adopt conﬂicting policies in response to
external pressures without disturbing their daily operations
(Bromley and Powell, 2012). Often, decoupling occurs across
the organisational hierarchy: Those in charge of policy
please external stakeholders, while those in charge of daily
activities continue to perform untouched (Barratt and Choi,
2007). Such isolation in daily activities has been framed as
‘buffering’ (Bromley and Powell, 2012), that is, as long as
policy adoption alone builds legitimacy, real change can be
delayed. Arguments for delaying action include a lack of
capacity and the need for time and costs to adapt (Nath et al.,
2020).
In means–end decoupling, policies are implemented that
have a weak relationship with the intended outcomes (Asif,
2020). Organisations are inherently complex. Within that com-
plexity, organisational participants may consciously recog-
nise that some actions are of limited utility but still pur-
sue them to please some stakeholders (Bromley and Powell,
2012). The allocation of resources between practices that
only aim at legitimacy and core practices disperses energy.
A lack of transparency increases the potential of dissoci-
ation between means and ends and eventually renders the
implementation of sustainability standards impossible (Wijen,
2014).
Focal ﬁrms that prioritise their reputation will often trans-
fer responsibility for issues related to modern slavery to their
suppliers (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021). In other words,
they deﬁne policy, but action is ‘outsourced’ to their supply
chain, thereby overburdening suppliers. This is probably why
previous research has focused on supplier decoupling, specif-
ically as means–end decoupling. Suppliers may engage in a
concealment strategy, attempting to prevent nonconformity
with sustainability practices by deliberately hiding their vio-
lations. Alternatively, suppliers may engage in a consensual
strategy that entails attempting to implement partial sustain-
ability practices by negotiating with other actors (Nath et al.,
2020). In fact, when focal ﬁrms ‘outsource’ an action to their
supply chain, they are also engaging in decoupling, but this
issue has been less addressed in the literature.
Decoupling (in both forms) often occurs due to infor-
mation asymmetry between ﬁrms and their stakeholders
(Huq and Stevenson, 2018). Supply chain transparency may
reduce information asymmetry (Chen et al., 2022). In addi-
tion, blockchain solutions can ease the transaction costs of
implementing supply chain transparency (Saberi et al., 2018;
Treiblmaier, 2018). However, if resistance arises from sup-
ply chain actors (in the form of decoupling), blockchains may
fail to support supply chain transparency, resulting in the per-
sistence of modern slavery risks. Our intervention aims to
understand the extent to which blockchain can ease transaction
costs and enhance supply chain transparency (RQ1) and why
transparency to mitigate modern slavery is met with resistance
(RQ2).
3 Methodology
3.1 Intervention-Based Research
Recent OSCM research has urged scholars to eschew the
‘quintessential ivory tower syndrome’ (van Aken et al., 2016,
p. 1) and critically engage with the problems they study
(Touboulic et al., 2020). The former calls for effective-
ness over explanation, designing/testing over theorisation,
and pragmatic validity over theoretical validity (van Aken
et al., 2016). The latter invites engagement over observa-
tion, exploring researcher agency and embeddedness over
time to allow access to what is usually inaccessible, as well
as critical thinking, reﬂexivity, and contextualisation ‘by de-
privileging the criterion of generalisability’ (Touboulic et al.,
2020, p. 10).
IBR is a methodological umbrella that can help answer
those calls. IBR can aim to solve a socio-technical problem
in a given context while reﬂecting on the theoretical implica-
tions of such endeavours (Fendt and Kaminska-Labb ́e, 2011;
Iivari and V enable, 2009). Although historically marginalised,
IBR has received growing attention in recent years, resulting in
guidance for researchers (Chandrasekaran et al., 2020). Hav-
ing considered different guidelines for IBR, this study follows
Oliva (2019, p. 710), seeking to ‘explore the role that inter-
ventions (the ultimate manifestation of design science) can
play in testing and developing theory (the ultimate goal of an
academic endeavour)’. According to this framework, IBR is
structured into two modes of enquiry. Mode 1 is grounded
in action research and can test and expand theories (Check-
land, 1985), while mode 2 holds explanatory power grounded
in a process perspective, which can lead to theory development
(Langley, 1999). In other words, an intervention can explore
why the chosen theory cannot explain the phenomenon?(mode
1) and why the system behaves in an unexpected manner?
(mode 2).
Along our journey, unexpected results allowed us to explore
both modes of enquiry. In Appendix 2 (see: e-companion),t h e
iceberg analogy is used to show that mode 1 occurred at the
surface, that is, investigating blockchain and transaction costs
(RQ1), whereas mode 2 delved deeper into the bottom of the
iceberg, exploring the decoupling and misconduct that led to
interruption of the intervention (RQ2).