--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 15 to Page 16
Word Range: 12570 - 14090
Word Count: 1,521
--------------------

[Page 15]
Marques et al. 1071
Figure 2. Conceptual framework.
PROPOSITION 4. The victimisation of focal ﬁrms and diver-
sion of attention to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and sup-
pliers (‘not behaving as expected’) conﬁgure the drivers of
organisational misconduct that support focal ﬁrm decoupling
(policy–practice).
Although the mechanisms depicted in Propositions 1–4 do
not ensure modern slavery, they eroded the assurance that
modern slavery could be under control. Complexity related to
the fact that in isolation, each brand was not to blame. Rather,
industry-wide practices produced price pressure and demand
instability, which hurt the supply chain, pushing suppliers to
engage with informality (Soundararajan et al., 2021) and thus
providing fertile soil for modern slavery. However, blurred lia-
bility and focal ﬁrm practices that eroded margins, intensiﬁed
pressure on suppliers, and could lead to working condition
infringements were less likely to be systemically challenged.
As a result, focal ﬁrms did not engage in reﬂections regard-
ing their own commercial practices (Meehan and Pinnington,
2021).
Modern slavery instances tend to spread in the supply
chain, worsening during crises, such as COVID-19 (Cole
and Shirgholami, 2021), but advancing as a gradual, con-
tinuous threat (Stevenson, 2022). In this scenario, supply
chain transparency is promised and implied but never truly
conﬁrmed (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021). Our ﬁnal propo-
sition summarises decoupling’s impact on the risk of modern
slavery:
P
ROPOSITION 5. Supplier decoupling (means–ends) and
focal ﬁrm decoupling (policy–practice) increase the risk of
modern slavery.
In Figure 2, we return to the iceberg analogy, with the ﬁve
propositions and a conceptual framework.
6 Conclusion
Thus far, little research has focused on the justiﬁcations that
focal ﬁrms provide for not investing in supply chain trans-
parency. The OSCM scholarship will continue to provide an
‘unhelpful caricature’ of the problem without an in-depth anal-
ysis of ‘the organisational and supply chain dynamics that give
rise to it; and the business actors and models through which
it ﬂourishes’ (Caruana et al., 2020, p. 252). Our study sheds
light on the dynamics that allow organisational misconduct
and decoupling to persist, particularly in the Global South
context (Huq and Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020). In this
way, we offer a methodological contribution to our ﬁeld by
conducting IBR.
Only extreme cases of opportunism become public. By
the same token, most occurrences of misconduct pass unno-
ticed. In both cases, most incidents are opaque, as (a) per-
petrators try to hide them due to social desirability, and (b)
potential informants and whistle-blowers often see the costs
as higher than the beneﬁts of denouncing. However, there
is a key difference between the two: While opportunism
looks at wrongdoing due to self-interest, making it an inside-
out perspective (Lumineau and Oliveira, 2020), organisa-
tional misconduct looks at wrongdoing as socially constructed,
therefore making it an outside-in perspective (Greve et al.,
2010).
When misconduct is a widespread practice, addressing it
requires systemic interventions. Focal ﬁrms are the supply
chain leader, engaging in explicit coordination and hold-
ing the most power. Thus, as much as they can support
small suppliers, they can also impose on them disadvan-
tages if misconduct is accepted (Glover and Touboulic, 2020).
Although our ﬁeld has devoted increasing attention to the
role of social dynamics (Kim et al., 2011; Marques et al.,
2020), there is scant research on how misconduct becomes

[Page 16]
1072 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
widespread in supply chains (Skilton and Bernardes, 2022).
W e address this based on theory elaboration, and we offer ﬁve
propositions.
In our ﬁrst proposition, we argue for the limitations of
blockchain solutions in reducing transaction costs. W e show
that a lack of trust leads to governance costs that outweigh the
potential for reducing audit costs (Murray et al., 2021). High
governance costs call for coopetition. Our conclusions clash
with those of OSCM research that has focused on the beneﬁts
of blockchain (Saberi et al., 2018; Treiblmaier, 2018). Such
ﬁndings have strong implications for practice. Blockchain
projects must incorporate governance and implementation
costs, which can only be accomplished with industry-level
adoption.
W e then provide four propositions that unpack the underly-
ing reasons why transaction costs alone cannot explain barriers
to supply chain transparency and why the project was hijacked
by drivers of organisational misconduct deeply rooted in the
sector’s culture that allowed decoupling to emerge, perpetuat-
ing the risk of modern slavery. The ﬁndings inform practice
by showing that decoupling should be addressed within focal
ﬁrms’ realms as much as along the supply base. However,
we offer guidance not only to practice but also to policy. If
industry-level misconduct is not addressed by policy, and mal-
practice is widespread, no focal ﬁrm can be easily blamed in
isolation.
Our study resonates with previous research on whistle-
blowing. Whistle-blowers have often been framed as ille-
gitimate and have suffered retaliation. Moreover, retalia-
tion has been stronger when whistle-blowers have disclosed
information about systemic and deep-seated wrongdoing
as opposed to isolated incidents (Kenny, 2018). Our work
reveals how organisational misconduct blocks an interven-
tion that would allow workers’ voices to be heard and expose
well-established detrimental practices towards suppliers and
workers.
Could blockchain technology offer a complement to
whistle-blowing strategies as a crowd-sourced worker voice?
According to Reinecke and Donaghey (2020, p. 28), ‘Ideally,
worker-driven supply chain governance will involve worker
v o i c e a c r o s s d i f f e r e n t l e v e l s ( ...) a n d g i v i n g t h e m a n a c t i v e
role in monitoring and enforcement ensures accountability
towards the intended beneﬁciaries of decent work initiatives
– the workers themselves’. W e show that any socio-technical
solution must build a common ground to pacify different
stakeholders with competing demands (e.g., labour, capital,
consumers) if we are to advance to a more transparent and
fairer society. Future research should dig further into how tech-
nology can complement traditional whistle-blowing strategies
to support workers’ voices in supply chains (Stevenson, 2022).
Y et, technology can only serve fairness and justice if we trig-
ger a shift away from labour as risk towards labour as care
and stewardship (Caruana et al., 2020). Without the social
dimension, the technical dimension is powerless (Mithas et al.,
2022).
W e advance OSCM research on modern slavery. Despite
the ﬁt between OSCM and modern slavery research, the ﬂow
of people in supply chains has been overlooked compared to
the ﬂow of goods. Caruana et al. (2020) called for horizon-
tal (vs. vertical), multitier (vs. singular), and bottom-up (vs.
top-down) conceptions of supply chain relations. Our work
also dives deeply into such relations. W e show convergence
among focal ﬁrms in building a discourse that shifts liability
to both ends of the supply chain: ‘consumers are unwilling to
pay’ and ‘suppliers are hard to trace’. The endorsement of such
discourse, however, is not explicit.
Recent research has discussed the failure of interventions
to address modern slavery due to the stickiness of a dominant
logic. Hasle and V ang (2021) called for unpacking how this
dominant logic obstructs decent work interventions. In our
study, we unpack the mechanisms through which the follow-
ing problem can be answered: ‘While buyers typically blame
suppliers for decoupling, the problem is in reality related to
the fact that both buyers and suppliers pursue strategies based
on cost-cutting’ (Hasle and V ang, 2021, p. 59). W e expose
a dominant logic deeply rooted in organisational misconduct
that is widespread among focal ﬁrms. Focal ﬁrms associate
instances of modern slavery with supplier misconduct or acci-
dents rather than reﬂecting on their own practices. They also
tend to blame the complexity and costs associated with trans-
parency when explaining their supply chain opacity (Chen
et al., 2022). Thus, a victimisation discourse serves as the
‘alibi’ they need. Future research could look at the condi-
tions that can break this dominant logic and reshape ﬁrm
behaviour.
Our work reveals the underlying social conditions of mod-
ern slavery in the Global South supply chains. The reconceptu-
alisation of the Global South under a postcolonial framework
explores the notions of mimicry and hybridity (Özkazanç–
Pan, 2008). Mimicry emerges as the attempt of the coloniser
to make the colonised copy their culture. Furthermore, to
dominate lands and people by way of mimicry, the coloniser
needs the colonised nation to be articulated as a homoge-
neous space. Meanwhile, according to the notion of hybridity,
(supply chain) practices emerge through encounters rather
than through static, nation-based cultural differences. Future
research could utilise a postcolonial lens in considering ways
of reframing capital–work relations and supply chain power
dynamics that sustain organisational misconduct and hinder
workers’ voices.
Predominantly, OSCM scholarship seems to echo focal
ﬁrms’ voices and reasoning, positioning misconduct at the feet
of suppliers rather than the other way around. If we do not truly
change and ensure that suppliers and workers are heard, the
behind-the-scenes truth in fashion will never meet the eyes of
society.
Declaration of Conﬂicting Interests
The authors declared no potential conﬂicts of interest with respect to
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.