--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 3 to Page 4
Word Range: 1591 - 3441
Word Count: 1,851
--------------------

[Page 3]
Marques et al. 1059
at the supplier (means–end decoupling) and at the focal ﬁrm
(policy–practice decoupling).
The Global South offers opportunities to research unstable
macroeconomic conditions and unique social issues (Aguinis
et al., 2020; Özkazanç-Pan, 2008). OSCM scholarship has so
far emphasised the misbehaviour of Global South suppliers
as the key cause of unsustainability (see: Asif, 2020; Vil-
lena, 2018) while proposing that Global North focal ﬁrms
are the ones responsible for changing the status quo (see:
Gold et al., 2013; Villena and Gioia, 2018). The predomi-
nant assumptions have ascribed power and autonomy to focal
ﬁrms while blaming weaker partners in the Global South
for risks related to greenwashing or modern slavery condi-
tions (Carmagnac et al., 2022; Glover and Touboulic, 2020).
Y et, (North)buyer–(South)supplier relationships are often dis-
guised as collaborative, even though they are actually detri-
mental to the supplier side (Chen et al., 2022). Moreover,
focal ﬁrm collaboration through third-party certiﬁcation can
‘fracture over time’, therefore ‘eroding’ trust in joint auditing
efforts (Benstead et al., 2018, p. 2307). The failure of supplier
audit schemes has often been used an excuse to support the vic-
timisation of focal ﬁrms (Parmigiani and Rivera-Santos, 2015;
Silvestre, 2015; Wu and Jia, 2018). Thus, our work offers a
critique of such dynamics, exposing focal ﬁrm liability for per-
petuating unfair purchasing practices that lead to decoupling
and modern slavery risk.
In the remainder of this article, we discuss the theoretical
background, followed by the methodology and the elements of
IBR. Next, we present the ﬁndings and discussion, including
ﬁve propositions. Finally, conclusions are provided along with
future research directions.
2 Theoretical Background
2.1 T ransaction Costs in Supply Chain T ransparency
Transaction costs include the costs of negotiating, implement-
ing and monitoring a focal ﬁrm’s supply contracts (Emery
and Marques, 2011). Transaction costs are driven by bounded
rationality and opportunism. The former assumes that cog-
nitive competence is a limited resource. Thus, transactions
that demand signiﬁcant cognitive capacity will tend to be
costly, and contracts will be incomplete (Williamson, 2008).
The latter assumes that economic actors pursuing self-interest
may engage in incomplete or distorted information disclosure
(McIvor, 2009). Bounded rationality and opportunism thus
increase transaction costs, which are barriers to market gov-
ernance. As noted by Lumineau and Oliveira (2020, p. 74),
‘if individuals never engaged in opportunistic behaviour, then
the market would sufﬁce for the mediation of all transactions’.
Therefore, focal ﬁrms tend to be attracted by alternatives,
such as those offered by new technology, which can alleviate
transaction costs.
Opportunistic behaviour and the associated transaction
costs that are incurred to prevent it from happening have
been widely discussed. Moreover, transaction cost theory has
become a top-of-mind lens in OSCM scholarship (Touboulic
and Walker, 2015b), which has expanded on the notions
of transaction costs from the dyad to discussing challenges
related to multitier supply chains (Meinlschmidt et al., 2018).
In the Global South context, research has emphasised insti-
tutional voids, that is, the lack of legislation enforcement,
mock compliance from suppliers and focal ﬁrms’ disregard for
supplier violations, all pointing towards supplier opportunism
(Huq and Stevenson, 2018). In 2020, Lumineau and Oliveira
(2020) called for an increased focus the study of opportunism
and for future research on new technologies (e.g., blockchain).
The authors also invited research on empirical contexts
beyond the US and Europe. The more complex the supply
chain, the higher the transaction costs will be to control suppli-
ers and the higher the information asymmetry, which prevents
the exposure of organisational misconduct. Information asym-
metry thus hinders public scrutiny and supports misconduct
(Marshall et al., 2016).
Fashion supply chains are particularly salient regarding
misconduct for two main reasons. First, misconduct is par-
ticularly hard to trace, given its complexity and dispersion,
and modern slavery often does not occur within the focal
ﬁrms’ direct purview but rather beyond the ﬁrst-tier suppli-
ers (Busse et al., 2016; Nath et al., 2020; Tachizawa and
W ong, 2015). Further, multi-sourcing is a common practice
in the fashion industry, and such strategies have been posited
as a way to conceal buyer misconduct (Kim et al., 2019).
Multi-sourcing accompanied by multitiered structures thus
concentrate the labour force in labour-intensive (tier-2) sewing
cells,
4 also called sweatshops to denote modern slavery. In
these sewing cells, which are mostly located in low-cost coun-
tries, informal arrangements prevail and fragile regulation
limits social control. Ultimately, supply network complexity
may result in a strain between the means and ends, which
may be used as justiﬁcations for inaction (Caruana et al.,
2020).
The second reason fashion supply chains are rife with mis-
conduct is the difﬁculty in deﬁning how unacceptable working
conditions must be to constitute modern slavery. Modern
slavery involves workers’ physical and mental conditions at
work (Christ et al., 2020). Even when freedom of move-
ment may be preserved, precarious working conditions may
constitute modern slavery (Kahya, 2007; Wiengarten et al.,
2021). Appendix 1 presents the associated terminologies (see:
e-companion).
Improving supply chain transparency to trace instances of
less-extreme versions of poor working conditions in supply
chains can reveal darker versions of forced labour, which are
the most difﬁcult to expose. Tracing modern slavery within
multitiered structures is a particular challenge (Busse et al.,
2016). The transaction costs of third-party audits are high,
even for large focal ﬁrms that resort to cooperation and
resource sharing in audit schemes (Benstead et al., 2021).
However, some large focal ﬁrms have developed their own
standards based on the argument that there is no one-size-

[Page 4]
1060 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
ﬁts-all solution. Consequently, the lack of standardisation and
lack of industry-level action are obstacles in the ﬁght against
modern slavery (Fudge and McCann, 2015).
2.2 Blockchain as a Solution to Supply Chain
T ransparency
In recent years, blockchain has been promoted as a tool for
supply chain transparency at a systemic level. Since 2018,
OSCM scholarship has argued that it can be used to enact sys-
temic solutions to sustainability while easing transaction costs
(Saberi et al., 2018; Treiblmaier, 2018).
A blockchain is a distributed system for capturing and
storing a consistent, immutable linear event log of transac-
tions (ledger) between networked actors (Queiroz et al., 2019).
There are certain key principles that deﬁne a blockchain. First,
the information control is decentralised: every piece of infor-
mation is broadcast to all other nodes, meaning that there is no
need for a central authority to approve transactions. Second,
the identity behind transactions is protected, and authenti-
cation is conducted by nodes of the network, providing a
combination of transparency and conﬁdentiality. Third, once
a transaction is included in the blockchain, it becomes almost
impossible to alter the ledger. Fourth, it is possible to write
programs, that is, smart contracts, which deﬁne what needs to
be checked for a transaction to be conﬁrmed and registered
(Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016).
First adopted by the ﬁnancial markets, blockchain had been
discussed in other industries as well, such as pharmaceutical
products, containers, wood and food. Blockchain applications
can also include real-time monitoring supported by technolo-
gies like radio frequency, global positioning systems and inter
of things, all of which allow tracking goods in real time and
knowing who is performing what in various sectors (e.g., con-
tainer or supplier monitoring) (Kshetri, 2018). Blockchain
applications can use smart contracts to reduce friction (i.e.,
transaction costs) and support peer-to-peer and collective bar-
gaining (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016).
Further, it has been posited that blockchain can ease trans-
action costs (Saberi et al., 2018) or even eliminating such
costs completely (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016). For exam-
ple, blockchain applications can serve as a reputation sys-
tem that replaces fraudulent rating systems, thus allowing
ﬁrms to establish the trustworthiness of suppliers (Efanov and
Roschin, 2018). Studies suggest that blockchain can not only
reduce the effort and the number of intermediates but also
the time needed to monitor suppliers. In addition, smart con-
tracts can increase the level of automation in the signing of
buyer–supplier contracts (Shermin, 2017). Beyond transac-
tion costs, it has been argued that blockchain can address core
challenges studied in OSCM research: diminishing the bull-
whip effect, improving integration and offering scalability to
logistics monitoring, all of these particularly useful for multi-
tier structures (Agrawal et al., 2021). For example, it might
help in avoiding situations like the infamous Chipotle food
contamination case, where the lack of ability to monitor sup-
pliers in real time made it impossible to prevent the breaching
of quality standards (Kshetri, 2018).
Ultimately, blockchain could be the key to scalable sup-
ply chain transparency. Supply chain transparency can include
data about employees clocking in and out of a factory to
gauge whether the factory is complying with labour regula-
tions (Stevenson, 2022). Blockchain has been presented as
the twenty-ﬁrst century’s ‘shop-lifting camera’, which com-
bines three elements: traceability, decentralisation of data
collection/validation, and breach-proof conﬁdentiality (Sher-
min, 2017). Such technology is well suited to complex sup-
ply networks. However, there few empirical studies have
addressed the impact of blockchain on social issues in the sup-
ply chain (Pournader et al., 2019). Thus, questions remain:
Could blockchains replace traditional monitoring schemes
(Greve et al., 2010)? Could this technology reduce miscon-
duct in supply chains in a frictionless manner (low transaction
costs)?
In contrast to the overwhelming positive appraisals of
blockchain, recent studies by Murray et al. (2021) and Pun
et al. (2021) have focused on governance and implementation
costs, which are neglected by most researchers. Governance
costs are related to data security issues and the ‘oracle prob-
lem’. Data security costs reﬂect additional controls for emer-
gent blockchain solutions before achieving scale/trust of all
involved actors. Fears related to data security give rise to pre-
emptive efforts to avoid errors resulting from removing human
discretion. When blockchain usage leads to a dispute between
two parties, the need for third-party arbitration may lead to
extra costs. Oracle costs refer to impartial third-party experts
who are hired to design smart contracts and/or assess data
quality (Murray et al., 2021). Thus, such governance costs,
most salient during implementation, offer trade-offs to trans-
action costs. Ignoring these costs may lead to misjudgements
in cost analyses (Pun et al., 2021) and disappointment when
inﬂated expectations are not met (Sodhi et al., 2022).
2.3 Decoupling as a Reaction to Supply Chain
T ransparency
Besides misjudging unforeseen costs, it is likely that
blockchain-based initiatives for improving supply chain trans-
parency may face resistance. For example, ﬁrms may resist the
disclosure of their supply chains (Doorey, 2011), the emerg-
ing technologies and the change that they provoke (Sodhi
et al., 2022), and the greater fairness that may result from
transparency (Chen et al., 2022). One particular form of organ-
isational resistance to new policies increasingly discussed in
the OSCM ﬁeld is decoupling (Nath et al., 2020).
The foundations of decoupling date back to the 1970s.
W eick (1976, p. 4) stated that ‘intentions are a poor guide
for action, intentions often follow rather than precede action,
and that intentions and action are loosely coupled’. Meyer and
Rowan (1977) framed decoupling as a thoughtful disconnec-
tion between organisational structures aiming at legitimacy