--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C52
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 13469 - 13769
Word Count: 301
--------------------

[Page 14]
1070 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
The ﬁrst driver identiﬁed in this study was coded as ratio-
nal choice, which emerged when ﬁrms justiﬁed delaying costs
to prevent misconduct by downplaying their consequences
(Greve et al., 2010). In our case, focal ﬁrms blamed con-
sumers’ unwillingness to pay premiums for transparency as
a reason to delay action: ‘ Have you ever heard the phrase:
Sweatshop is wrong unless the shoes are cute? ’ Despite their
share of responsibility, consumers were not heard, consulted,
or engaged with (Carmagnac et al., 2022). Portraying them as
greedy and unaware helped justify focal ﬁrms’ inaction rather
than taking ownership of the responsibility to inform con-
sumers (Chen et al., 2022). Moreover, focal ﬁrms used alleged
consumer unwillingness to pay and volatility as arguments for
passing price pressure and demand instability downstream in
their supply chains.
The second identiﬁed driver reﬂected a strain (tension),
which was observed in the framing of goals as unachiev-
able (Greve et al., 2010; Wijen, 2014). In our case, focal
ﬁrms diverted attention from their own practices and blamed
supplier behaviour. Tier-1 suppliers were framed as the ones
responsible for negotiating with tier-2 suppliers, as if price
pressures from the brands to tier-1 suppliers would not trans-
late to such pressures to tier-2 suppliers. In addition, tier-2
suppliers were blamed for accepting demand beyond their
capacity, thereby fragilising the supply chain. The focal ﬁrms
reasoned that none of these issues were linked to their own
unfair purchasing practices. If the cause was external to the
focal ﬁrm, supply chain transparency could be framed as
unachievable (Doorey, 2011).
The third identiﬁed driver reﬂected a victimisation culture.
Culture can permit misconduct by socially weighing victims’
claims or diverting attention from the original victim (Greve
et al., 2010). This notion echoes climate change deniers, for
example, when they downplay the impact of carbon emis-
sions on society to justify corporate inaction. Modern slavery
research has suggested that the efﬁciency paradigm supports
focal ﬁrm victimisation (Caruana et al., 2020). If focal ﬁrms
could see value in ethical behaviour and transparency, some
would advance towards supply chain transparency (Stevenson
and Cole, 2018). However, if they jointly shared a common
culture of denial, homogeneity would lead to inaction at the
industry level.
Together, the drivers of rational choice, goal strain, and
victimisation culture supported a discourse to absolve unfair
purchasing practices by blaming the others: consumers, sup-
pliers, and ﬁerce competition. Note that, on the one hand, the
competitive side of coopetition led to price pressures, and, on
the other hand, the cooperative side of coopetition diffused
misconduct. The highly ambiguous nature of modern slav-
ery, linked to the lack of transparency, further contributed to
inaction (Stevenson, 2022). Suppliers were thus left with no
alternatives. While OSCM research has often considered how
focal ﬁrms can prevent opportunism by suppliers (Asif, 2020;
Nath et al., 2020; Villena, 2018; Villena and Gioia, 2018), few
studies have investigated focal ﬁrm misconduct. Our ﬁndings
led to a proposition that captures these dynamics:
P
ROPOSITION 3. The victimisation of focal ﬁrms and diver-
sion of attention to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and sup-
pliers (‘not behaving as expected’) conﬁgure the drivers of
organisational misconduct that are used to justify focal ﬁrms’
unfair purchasing practices.
Besides supporting unfair purchasing practices, the identi-
ﬁed drivers of organisational misconduct also led to focal ﬁrm
decoupling. While supplier decoupling has been addressed
recently (Nath et al., 2020), factors related to focal ﬁrm
behaviour have been overlooked. In particular, focal ﬁrm
power in the supply chain should lead to higher responsibility,
not the reverse (Asif, 2020). Such a power imbalance became
clear in the fashion supply chain, cascading from the brand to
tier-1 suppliers, then from tier-1 to tier-2 suppliers, and ﬁnally
to workers at the end of the supply chain, who are exposed to
modern slavery conditions.
Our study revealed that focal ﬁrm decoupling took a differ-
ent form than supplier decoupling. While supplier behaviour
was characterised by means–end decoupling, decoupling at the
focal ﬁrms took the shape of a policy–practice gap. The pol-
icy–practice decoupling reﬂected symbolic adoption. While a
transparency policy was highlighted in discourse and corpo-
rate reporting (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021), weak imple-
mentation led to little or no change in daily routines (Bromley
and Powell, 2012).
When the mobile app was developed to allow full sup-
ply chain transparency, the focal ﬁrms’ responses shifted to
a stepwise approach. This meant improving the visibility of
focal ﬁrms to their supply chains without providing trans-
parency for stakeholders, which has been deﬁned as a ‘secrecy
strategy’ (Marshall et al., 2016). From a policy perspective,
transparency was a core value for many focal ﬁrms in the asso-
ciation. However, their practices involved visibility and control
without transparency. As such, the failure to comply resulted
in harsh consequences for the suppliers but no consequences
for the focal ﬁrms. In other words, without supply chain trans-
parency, blockchain could be used to control suppliers, but no
link between supplier non-compliance and brands would be
made public. Non-compliant suppliers could be excluded from
the association list, but no speciﬁc links between each brand
and these non-complaint suppliers would be made. This served
as a ‘smokescreen’ (Doorey, 2011). Without a clear timeline
on how and when to progress from visibility to transparency,
visibility became an end in its own right rather than a means
to transparency (Asif, 2020).
By transferring the responsibility for modern slavery to
supplier practices (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021) and con-
sumer choices (Chen et al., 2022), focal ﬁrms could divert
attention to weaker links in the supply chain – a hypocriti-
cal practice that decouples discourse from practice (Glover
and Touboulic, 2020). In our fourth proposition, we elabo-
rate on how focal ﬁrms’ response to transparency pressures
included buffering their supply chain practices and protecting
them from exposure/outside inspection (Bromley and Powell,
2012):