--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C28
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 8
Word Range: 7139 - 7404
Word Count: 266
--------------------

[Page 8]
1064 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
Figure 1. Data structure.
According to Langley (1999), process studies should bal-
ance accuracy, generality, and simplicity. T emporal bracket-
ing offers conditions for excellent accuracy (as long as the
phases depict time shifts properly), with moderate general-
ity (single-case limitations), and moderate simplicity (given
the challenges in portraying a process view and a variable
view). Most importantly, the chosen strategy focused on
uncovering the driving mechanisms of the phenomenon under
study.
The data coding followed the two-cycle approach proposed
by Saldaña (2013). Within each temporal bracket, the ﬁrst
cycle was focused on reviewing the corpus and building a
foundation based on holistic coding, which is appropriate for
studies with a wide variety of data forms, such as transcripts
and ﬁeld notes. This type of coding is applicable when the
researcher already has an idea of what to look for. W e started
with transaction costs and then considered the reasons why
the intervention failed to mitigate such costs. The ﬁrst-order
concepts were grounded on power quotes extracted from the
recorded interviews and complemented by e-mails, ﬁeld notes,
and other data sources, which were key to supporting the tran-
sition from ﬁrst-order concepts to second-order themes. The
second coding cycle aimed to synthesise and conceptualise
the ﬁrst-order concepts, and we explored focused coding to
map the most frequent and signiﬁcant codes to develop salient
categories (Saldaña, 2013). Figure 1 presents the data struc-
ture based on ﬁrst-order and second-order stages, illustrating
the phases when concepts emerged as well as which RQ they
address more directly.
Additional data is presented in Appendix 7 – representa-
tive power quotes for ﬁrst-order concepts and Appendix 8 – a
sample of mobile app screenshots translated into English (see:
e-companion). While preserving conﬁdentiality, this evidence
offers further insights on the intervention.
3.4 Reﬂections on Research Quality
An interventionist must be conscious that interventions seek
to build on artiﬁcial systems that do not yet exist (i.e., ‘will
it work?’) and contrast with the natural sciences’ explana-
tion of existing natural systems (i.e., ‘is it valid or true?’)
(Oliva, 2019). An interventionist must also ensure the devel-
opment of a knowledge database that can support both prac-
tical and academic objectives (Nair et al., 2011), respecting
both the ‘researcher–client agreement’ and their professional
duty to contribute to academia. Finally, an interventionist
must state their instance, perspective, and possible limitations.
Researcher-A had extensive experience in the fashion indus-
try prior to academia, while Researcher-B and Researcher-C
had no prior experience in the industry. All researchers were
born and raised in Brazil, which shaped their worldview
but also helped in developing stronger relationships with the
participants.
T eam diversity enriched our discussions and provided
a source of triangulation, which also occurred while con-
fronting the different perspectives formed during the project
phases. Further, the study also included the triangulation of
methods and data to strengthen its reliability and internal