--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-107-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-107
Page Range: Page 7 to Page 8
Word Range: 5317 - 6774
Word Count: 1,458
--------------------

[Page 7]
Marques et al. 1063
(while Brand-A has one of the largest sales turnover in the
country, Brand-B has less than 10 % of Brand-A’s sales), dif-
ferent target consumers (Brand-A is a fast fashion chain, while
Brand-B is a premium brand), and different sourcing geog-
raphy (Brand-A’s local suppliers are concentrated in the São
Paulo region, while Brand-B’s suppliers are located in Rio de
Janeiro and Southern Brazil). These characteristics supported
purposeful sampling, thereby enhancing the external validity
of the research ﬁndings.
Appendix 3 ( see: e-companion ) presents a map of the
intervention and data collection instances. The left side of
the ﬁgure shows the supply network organised in three lay-
ers: the institutional layer with the government, the research
team, and the start-up; the pre-competitive layer, including the
Fashion Retail Association (henceforth ‘Association’, which
represents one-third of fashion sales in Brazil) and NGOs
that engage with multiple fashion brands; and ﬁnally, the sup-
ply chain layer, which represents workers, suppliers, and the
fashion brands. The ﬁgure presents both the 18 organisations
directly involved in the intervention and entities that were
not interviewed but mentioned repeatedly during the study,
such as the government. The right side of the ﬁgure quanti-
ﬁes the data collection: meetings, workshops, interviews, and
ﬁeldwork tours, including in loco recorded interviews.
The data collection was carried out using different meth-
ods that can be clustered in three groups, varying in frequency
and formality. The ﬁrst cluster refers to the core team (the
research team and the Start-up), which interacted through mul-
tiple e-mails, phone calls, conference calls, and meetings in
São Paulo. The second cluster covers the two brands and
the two NGOs, in which most of the interactions were con-
centrated on the ﬁve group workshops conducted over one
year, although phone calls and e-mails were also registered for
analysis. The third cluster comprises the supply chain actors
(tier-1 and tier-2 suppliers and their workers), where interac-
tions were restricted to the formally scheduled conference calls
and local visits and the two interviews with the Association
director.
Researcher-A, Researcher-C, NGO-B, and Brand-B were
based in Rio de Janeiro, whereas NGO-A, Brand-A, the Start-
up, the Association and Researcher-B were based in São Paulo
(note: hired to beneﬁt from proximity). There were 34 meet-
ings, 25 of which took place via conference calls and nine
in a rented facility in São Paulo. The same facility hosted
ﬁve group workshops that served as the key milestones of the
project (Appendix 4, e-companion).
Interaction with suppliers and their workers was carried out
through two rounds of ﬁeldwork visits spread from São Paulo
(Supply Chain-A) to the south of the country (Supply Chain-
B), totalling 20 ﬁeld visits. The ﬁeld trips included 15 semi-
structured and recorded interviews and multiple unrecorded
conversations. In addition, during the second tour, 60 work-
ers provided (unrecorded) feedback about the mobile app in
a series of meetings conducted by 2–3 Core T eam members
with groups of 5–7 workers in a round circle. In addition, two
interviews were conducted with the Association in São Paulo,
the ﬁrst midway during the project and the second during the
project closure. In the last stage of the project, Researcher-C
conducted three interviews with NGO-A’s manager and the
start-up team.
Appendix 5 provides a summary of the intervention time-
line (27 months), organised into four phases ranging from 3
to 12 months each. For each phase, the ﬁgure indicates the
core activities and the resulting data collection. The diagram
also indicates when each researcher joined the project. The
four phases not only depict the passage of time but also mark
key shifts in data analysis and theory elaboration. Appendix 6
offers the full list of interviewees (see: e-companion).
3.3 Data Analysis and Visualisation
The data analysis adhered to the recommendations of
Chandrasekaran et al. (2020). First, we developed a rich
description of our intervention and included appropriate data.
Second, the theory from which we departed was a plausible
starting point, that is, transaction costs. Third, the insight into
the need to recalibrate and develop theory further represented
sufﬁciently new and interesting knowledge.
W e employed a multitude of data visualisation techniques
to convey the message and portray both the process perspective
in its phases and the emerging concepts and their relation-
ships. In the Section 4, power quotes are complemented with
vignettes at the beginning and end of the section.
Vignettes have recently been utilised by some OSCM
researchers to study a women’s empowerment programme in
Ghana (McCarthy, 2017) and a slavery detection initiative in
Southeast Asia (Benstead et al., 2021). In both studies, the
authors advanced our understanding of supply chains from a
Global South perspective, using vignettes to visualise ﬁeld-
work reﬂexivity. In our study, the vignettes were written in the
ﬁrst person, drawing heavily on Researcher-A’s diary notes
and reﬂections, as reﬂexivity is central to action research
(Checkland, 1985). An action research project begins with an
action aimed at producing change and ends with a reﬂection on
the learnings. Therefore, ﬁrst-person vignettes can help embed
the reader in the data analysis and reﬂections.
While vignettes can help with immersion, data coding
supports theoretical propositions. To organise the data and
produce the analysis, we employed the temporal bracketing
strategy (Langley, 1999). Bracketing data in phases helped
describe the processes and mechanisms identiﬁed. For this,
‘evidence is (was) drawn together to examine how the con-
text affects these processes, and what the consequences of
these processes are on the future context and other rele-
vant variables of interest’ (Langley, 1999, p. 703). Organis-
ing the intervention in phases also helped to reveal mecha-
nisms that only surfaced once the intervention advanced from
inception to development and validation. T emporal bracket-
ing helped us move from messiness to a framework without
misrepresenting the inherent complexity of the phenomenon.

[Page 8]
1064 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
Figure 1. Data structure.
According to Langley (1999), process studies should bal-
ance accuracy, generality, and simplicity. T emporal bracket-
ing offers conditions for excellent accuracy (as long as the
phases depict time shifts properly), with moderate general-
ity (single-case limitations), and moderate simplicity (given
the challenges in portraying a process view and a variable
view). Most importantly, the chosen strategy focused on
uncovering the driving mechanisms of the phenomenon under
study.
The data coding followed the two-cycle approach proposed
by Saldaña (2013). Within each temporal bracket, the ﬁrst
cycle was focused on reviewing the corpus and building a
foundation based on holistic coding, which is appropriate for
studies with a wide variety of data forms, such as transcripts
and ﬁeld notes. This type of coding is applicable when the
researcher already has an idea of what to look for. W e started
with transaction costs and then considered the reasons why
the intervention failed to mitigate such costs. The ﬁrst-order
concepts were grounded on power quotes extracted from the
recorded interviews and complemented by e-mails, ﬁeld notes,
and other data sources, which were key to supporting the tran-
sition from ﬁrst-order concepts to second-order themes. The
second coding cycle aimed to synthesise and conceptualise
the ﬁrst-order concepts, and we explored focused coding to
map the most frequent and signiﬁcant codes to develop salient
categories (Saldaña, 2013). Figure 1 presents the data struc-
ture based on ﬁrst-order and second-order stages, illustrating
the phases when concepts emerged as well as which RQ they
address more directly.
Additional data is presented in Appendix 7 – representa-
tive power quotes for ﬁrst-order concepts and Appendix 8 – a
sample of mobile app screenshots translated into English (see:
e-companion). While preserving conﬁdentiality, this evidence
offers further insights on the intervention.
3.4 Reﬂections on Research Quality
An interventionist must be conscious that interventions seek
to build on artiﬁcial systems that do not yet exist (i.e., ‘will
it work?’) and contrast with the natural sciences’ explana-
tion of existing natural systems (i.e., ‘is it valid or true?’)
(Oliva, 2019). An interventionist must also ensure the devel-
opment of a knowledge database that can support both prac-
tical and academic objectives (Nair et al., 2011), respecting
both the ‘researcher–client agreement’ and their professional
duty to contribute to academia. Finally, an interventionist
must state their instance, perspective, and possible limitations.
Researcher-A had extensive experience in the fashion indus-
try prior to academia, while Researcher-B and Researcher-C
had no prior experience in the industry. All researchers were
born and raised in Brazil, which shaped their worldview
but also helped in developing stronger relationships with the
participants.
T eam diversity enriched our discussions and provided
a source of triangulation, which also occurred while con-
fronting the different perspectives formed during the project
phases. Further, the study also included the triangulation of
methods and data to strengthen its reliability and internal