--- PAGE 2 ---
 
Table of Contents 
Abstract ............................................................................................................................ i 
Acknowledgments ............................................................................................................ ii 
List of Abbreviations ........................................................................................................ iii 
1. Fortifying India’s Future: Tackling Vitamin D Deficiency through Food-Based Solutions 1 
2. Food Fortification: An Approach to Address Vitamin D Deficiency ................................ 1 
3. Vitamin D Fortification Globally: Experiences of Select Countries ................................. 2 
4. Vitamin D Fortification in India – Some Efforts, but are they Enough? .......................... 3 
5. Action Points for MoFPI to Address Vitamin D Deficiency in India ................................ 4 
5.1 Collaborate with FSSAI and other Stakeholders for more Vitamin D Fortified Food 
Products ...................................................................................................................... 4 
5.2 Support Research and Innovation in Vitamin D Fortification ...................................... 5 
5.3 Launching Targeted Pilot Programmes through Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships ...... 6 
5.4 Incentivising Fortified Food Production and Consumption ......................................... 6 
5.5 Capacity Building of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for Vitamin D 
Fortification ................................................................................................................. 6 
References ....................................................................................................................... 7 
 
List of Tables 
Table 1:  Potential Food Vehicles and their Fortifiable Micronutrients ........................................ 3 
 
List of Boxes 
Box 1:  Addressing Micronutrient Deficiency through Partnership: The Case of 
Bangladesh ................................................................................................... 2 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
i 
Abstract 
As India moves toward achieving nutrition security, micronutrient deficiency remains a 
pressing public health concern – most notably Vitamin D deficiency, which now affects one in 
every five Indians. The ICRIER -ANVKA Foundation 2025 report, titled, “Roadmap to Address 
Vitamin D Deficiency in India”, highlights the potential of food and diet in addressing Vitamin 
D deficiency. Despite being one of the world’s largest producers of Vitamin D-rich foods such 
as milk, eggs and fish, such foods are not reaching the population at scale.  The Food Safety 
and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) permits the voluntary fortification of only milk and 
edible oil with Vitamin D . The National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and 
Management (NIFTEM), under the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI), is actively 
engaged in research on food-based Vitamin D fortification.  
International organis ations like the World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and 
Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the United Nations International Children's Fund (UNICEF) 
have recommended food fortification as one of the most cost -effective strategies to combat 
micronutrient deficiencies. They have also recommended the fortification of food  with 
multiple micronutrients. Countries such as Jordan, Nigeria, Sweden, Canada, the USA and 
Finland have fortified many food products including milk, cheese, fat spreads, yogurt, wheat, 
cereals, biscuits, juice, etc., with Vitamin D.  
This policy brief outlines five action points that the MoFPI may undertake to address Vitamin 
D deficiency through food fortification and to support processing of food to retain Vitamin D. 
These range from expanding fortification to staples,  incentivising research and production,  
launching targeted pilot programmes through multi-stakeholder partnerships, promoting the 
production and consumption of fortified foods  and supporting micro, small and medium 
enterprises (MSMEs) to produce foods rich in micronutrients through subsidies and capacity 
building initiatives. By embedding nutrition in food processing, MoFPI can play a 
transformative role in realising a "Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”. 
  

--- PAGE 4 ---
ii 
Acknowledgments 
We are grateful to Dr. Aashish Chaudhry, Managing Director, Aakash Healthcare Private 
Limited for giving us the opportunity to work on this policy brief, which is based on our joint 
report titled, “Roadmap to Address Vitamin D Deficiency in India”. We would like to thank the 
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) for their extensive inputs and support.   
We are grateful to experts from Indian Council of Medical Research – National Institute of 
Nutrition (ICMR -NIN), National Pharmaceu tical Pricing Authority (NPPA), Central Drugs 
Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), National Institute of Food Technology, 
Entrepreneurship and Management (N IFTEM), Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), 
United Nation s World Food Programme (UNWFP) and t he Global Alliance for Improved 
Nutrition (GAIN) for their valuable insights, which greatly enriched our understanding. We 
sincerely thank the team of doctors from AIIMS, Aakash Healthcare and Max Healthcare for 
their valuable inputs. 
We are especially gra teful to Dr. B. Sesikeran, MD, Former Director, National Institute of 
Nutrition (NIN), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr. Seema Puri, Professor (Retd.), 
Institute of Home Economics, and Dr. Sirimavo Nair, Professor, Centre for Public Health, 
Navrachna University, Vadodara , currently serving as Scientist & Chair, Nutrition & 
Fortification, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and Working Committee 
Member of CODEX, for their review and suggestions. Their invaluable contribution 
significantly strengthened our findings. 
We thank Ms. Kulpreet Freddy Vesuna, Consultant, and Ms. Damayantee Majumdar, Research 
Intern at ICRIER, for their valuable support . We also  extend our gratitude to the entire 
administrative and support staff of ICRIER for their respective contributions. We are grateful 
to Ms. Tara Nair for copy-editing and Mr. Sanu Kapila of the Academic Foundation for printing 
this policy brief. 
__________ 
Key Words: Vitamin D Deficiency, food processing, food fortification, health policy, India, micronutrient.   
JEL Classification: I10, I18, I19, L66 
Authors’ Email Addresses: Arpita@icrier.res.in; director@aakashhealthcare.com; 
tkhanna@icrier.res.in; lkhatwani@icrier.res.in; pallavi.verma@aakashhealthcare.com  
________ 
Disclaimer: Opinions and recommendations in the policy brief are exclusively of the author(s) and not of any 
other individual or institution including ICRIER. This policy brief has been prepared in good faith on the basis of 
information available up to the date of publication. All interactions and transactions with industry sponsors and 
their representatives have been transparent and conducted in an open, honest and independent manner as 
enshrined in ICRIER Memorandum of Association. ICRIER does not accept any corporate funding that comes with 
a mandated research area which is not in line with ICRIER’s research agenda. The corporate funding of an ICRIER 
activity does not, in any way, imply  ICRIER’s endorsement of the views of the sponsoring organization or its 
products or policies. ICRIER does not conduct research that is focused on any specific product or service provided 
by the corporate sponsor. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
iii 
List of Abbreviations 
CDSCO Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation 
CFTRI Central Food Technological Research Institute 
EU European Union 
FAO Food and Agriculture Organization 
FSSAI Food Safety and Standards Authority of India 
GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition 
HRQL Health-related quality of life 
ICER Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio 
ICMR-NIN Indian Council of Medical Research – National Institute of Nutrition 
IP Intellectual Property 
ISBMR Indian Society for Bone and Mineral Research 
MoFPI Ministry of Food Processing Industries  
MoHFW Ministry of Health and Family Welfare 
MoWCD Ministry of Women and Child Development 
MSME Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
NDDB National Dairy Development Board 
NIFTEM National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management 
NPPA National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority 
PHFI Public Health Foundation of India 
QALY Quality Adjusted Life Year 
R&D Research and Development 
SAMPADA Survey for Assessment of Markers of Population Health Activity, Diet and 
Anthropometry 
UNICEF United Nations International Children's Fund 
UNWFP United Nations World Food Programme 
USA United States of America 
UT Union Territory 
UV Ultraviolet 
WHO World Health Organization 
  

--- PAGE 6 ---
1 
Action Points for the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) 
Arpita Mukherjee, Aashish Chaudhry, Trishali Khanna, Latika Khatwani and Pallavi Verma 
1. Fortifying India’s Future: Tackling Vitamin D Deficiency through Food-Based Solutions 
Micronutrient deficiency is a pressing public health 
challenge in India, which accounts for nearly half of the 
world’s micronutrient-deficient population. Although 
India has made significant strides in addressing some 
micronutrient deficiencies , such as iron and iodine 
deficiency through double fortified salt , Vitamin D 1 
deficiency, which one in five Indians  suffer from, now 
demands urgent and focused attention. This deficiency 
poses lifelong health risks with far -reaching 
consequences, including  rickets in children, 
osteomalacia and osteoporosis in adults, and poor 
foetal bone development during pregnancy.2 
India is well-equipped to tackle this deficiency through 
food. The country is the  world’s largest producer of 
Vitamin D-rich foods like milk,  and the second-largest 
producer of eggs and fish (as of 2024).3 While these are 
consumed by many Indians, other foods rich in Vitamin 
D like salmon, cod liver oil and mushrooms  are only 
consumed by a niche group of the population  and are 
not part of the regular Indian diet. Moreover, around 30% of the Indian population is 
vegetarian,4 while many Vitamin D-rich foods are animal-based.    
2. Food Fortification: An Approach to Address Vitamin D Deficiency  
Food fo rtification5 has been proven to be an  effective strategy to address multiple 
micronutrient deficiencies, including Vitamin D deficiency. International organisations such as 
the World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the 
United Nations International Children's Fund (UNICEF) have recommended food fortification 
as one of the most cost -effective and sustainable , population -wide strateg ies to address 
micronutrient deficiencies. For example, the WHO and FAO issued the “Guidelines on Food 
                                                           
1  Vitamin D is a vital micronutrient that plays a crucial role in the development, growth and maintenance of a healthy skeletal system 
throughout an individual’s lifespan. The primary role of Vitamin D is to regulate calcium homeostasis, which is crucial for maintaining 
proper calcium levels and promoting strong bones. See ICRIER-ANVKA Foundation 2025 report, “Roadmap to Address Vitamin D 
Deficiency in India” (Mukherjee et al., 2025). 
2  Reddy, 2020; Nitish et al., 2024; Bhadada et al., 2021. 
3  https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2114715; https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2086052; 
https://www.pib.gov.in/FactsheetDetails.aspx?Id=149135 (Last accessed on July 23, 2025). 
4  https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/FR375/FR375.pdf (Last accessed on July 16, 2025). 
5  The process of adding one or more vitamins and minerals to commonly consumed food items. 
Sources of Vitamin D 
 
Sunshine: Vitamin D, also known as 
the ‘sunshine vitamin,’ is primarily 
obtained through exposure to 
sunlight.  
Foods: Fish, eggs, mushrooms, 
cheese, etc., fortified products like 
milk, margarine, yogurt, juices and 
cereals.  
Vitamin D Supplements:  Vitamin D2 
(Ergocalciferol, mostly plant -based) 
and D 3 (Cholecalciferol, mostly 
animal-based). 


--- PAGE 7 ---
2 
Fortification with Micronutrients” in November 2006, which provides a comprehensive 
framework for implementing and regulating food fortification programmes. 
In India, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has permitted the voluntary 
fortification of milk and edible oil with Vitamin D and mandated its distribution through public 
food procurement schemes (like Mission POSHAN 2.0).6  
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI)  is the nodal ministry for processing of 
fortified foods. Under the ministry, institutions such as the National Institute of Food 
Technology Entrepreneurship and Management ( NIFTEM) are already engaged in research 
and development (R&D) on Vitamin D including bioavailability, stability, formulation,  plant-
based D₃, Vitamin D retention during cooking, etc.  Therefore, the ministry can play a key role 
in addressing the deficiency through food-based solutions, particularly fortification. 
3. Vitamin D Fortification Globally: Experiences of Select Countries   
Countries such as Jordan, Nigeria, Sweden, Canada, 
the United States of America (USA) and Finland have 
benefited by fortifying a wide range of products such 
as margarine, milk, cheese, fat spreads, flour, yogurt, 
juices, biscuits, bread, etc., with Vitamin D. Globally, 
there are example s of many multi -stakeholder 
initiatives to address Vitamin D deficiency through 
food fortification. For example, Bangladesh, in 2011, with the support of the European Union 
(EU), introduced a school -based micronutrient fortification programme under which  daily 
packets of Vitamin D-fortified biscuits were provided to children in rural primary schools; this 
has shown positive results in reducing the deficiency (for details see Box 1). 
Box 1: Addressing Micronutrient Deficiency through Partnership: The Case of Bangladesh  
In 2011, the Bangladesh Government, with support from the European Union (EU), launched a 
school-based micronutrient food fortification programme. This initiative targeted children in rural 
primary schools across 10 disadvantaged sub-districts. The intervention provided each child with a 
daily packet of 75g of biscuits fortified with essential micronutrients, including Vitamin D3.  
The programme had a significant positive impact on increasing mean levels of Vitamin D . Mean 
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels increased by 1.1 times.  Fortified biscuits served as an 
effective vehicle for improving Vitamin D levels, as teachers and caregivers reported improved 
attentiveness, energy levels and classroom engagement among students. 
- Adams et al., (2017) 
Studies have shown the positive impact of Vitamin D fortification in reducing the burden of 
Vitamin D deficiency and of diseases related to the deficiency , as well as  improving quality 
                                                           
6  All such fortified products are required to carry the designated ‘+F’ logo.  
“Large scale food fortification is a 
powerful evidence-informed and cost-
effective intervention to fight the 
consequences of vitamin and mineral 
deficiencies”.  
            -WHO (2023) 

--- PAGE 8 ---
3 
adjusted life years (QALYs).7 For example, in Belgium, Ethgen et al. (2016) evaluated the cost-
effectiveness of consuming Vitamin D-fortified yoghurt by 80-year-old women with vertebral 
fractures and found that it led to a gain of 0.027 QALYs; the incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio (ICER)8 was €255 (USD 275) per person. Another study by Aguair et al. (2019) estimated 
that consuming fortified wheat flour with Vitamin D (400IU per 100 grams) could prevent 
approximately 9.9 million cases of Vitamin D deficiency and result in the gain of 1.75 million 
QALYs across the population of England and Wales.  
4. Vitamin D Fortification in India – Some Efforts, but are they Enough? 
While the Government of India is aware of the rising incidence of Vitamin D deficiency and 
has taken initiatives, one major miss is in expanding the basket of fortified food products , 
which countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Nigeria have adopted . This is despite the 
UNICEF’s 2023 guidelines on  “Large-scale Food Fortification for Preventi on of Micronutrient 
Deficiencies in Children, Women and Co mmunities”, which recommends wheat flour, maize 
flour and rice as appropriate vehicles for Vitamin D fortification (see Table 1).  
Table 1: Potential Food Vehicles and their Fortifiable Micronutrients 
Food Vehicle Vitamins and Minerals (Fortificant) that can be Added 
Wheat Flour Iron, Zinc, Selenium, Vitamins A, D, B 1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 
(Pyridoxine), B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Maize Flour Iron, Zinc, Vitamins A, D, B1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 (Pyridoxine), 
B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Rice Iron, Zinc, Selenium, Vitamins A, D, B 1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 
(Pyridoxine), B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Oil Vitamins A, D, and E 
Milk Vitamins A, D, Iron, and Folic Acid 
Source: UNICEF (2023). 
Moreover, not everyone in India can afford  regular milk consumption. D ue to the rising 
incidence of cardiovascular diseases and obesity, many doctors are now recommending a 
reduction in the intake of edible oil. Thus, voluntary food fortification of only two products – 
edible oil and milk – is not enough to prevent the deficiency. Further, a large part of these two 
products are in the unorganised/informal sector, which do not fortify the products.   
Although FSSAI has mandated the use of fortified milk and edible oil in government food 
procurement programmes (such as Mission POSHAN 2.0), some fortified products cannot be 
distributed due to supply chain and storage issues . For example, only a few states such as 
                                                           
7  QALYs measure both the quantity and quality of life lived. One QALY equals one year of life in perfect health. It is calculated by 
multiplying the number of additional years of life by the health-related quality of life (HRQL) score, which ranges from 0 (equivalent to 
death) to 1 (perfect health). QALYs are useful for comparing different types of health interventions – for example, one that extends life 
but with side effects, and another that improves the quality of life without increasing lifespan. 
8  The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is a measure representing the economic value of an intervention, compared with an 
alternative. In this case, the alternative is no intervention undertaken.  
 ICER= (Cost of new strategy-cost of current practice)/(Effect of new strategy-effect of current practice). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
4 
Maharashtra and Gujarat  provide milk through PM POSHAN . Some states like Tamil Nadu, 
Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have included eggs in their school meals.9 It will be 
ideal to distribute fortified milk in partnership with organisations like National D airy 
Development Board (NDDB). However, in case there is any issue in the supply chain, then 1 to 
2 Vitamin D-enriched biscuits per child may be provided, taking into account that the content 
should be classified under high fat, sugar and salt food.   
Several food products (like packaged juices and cereals) are now available in food stores and 
non-store r etail formats as “Vitamin D Enriched ”. This is allowed under the FSSAI claim 
regulation and there is a growing demand for such products. Enriching products with micro-
nutrients often make s them a p remium product, with the high price reducing their 
affordability to the masses.   
5. Action Points for MoFPI to Address Vitamin D Deficiency in India 
The following five action points by the MoFPI will help to address Vitamin D deficiency in India. 
5.1 Collaborate with FSSAI and other Stakeholders for more Vitamin D Fortified Food 
Products 
To realise the vision of “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”, the FSSAI Scientific Panel on Food 
Fortification, experts from the NIFTEM, Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), 
and other stakeholders [such as the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and the 
Gates Foundation] may work together to achieve the following: 
 Expand the Range of Fortifiable Food Vehicles: At present, fortification efforts are limited 
to edible oils and milk. Identifying additional food vehicles suitable for Vitamin D 
fortification, such as commonly consumed 
staples like rice, wheat flour and maize flour  
can significantly help address Vitamin D 
deficiency. In this regard, UNICEF’s 2023 
Guidelines on Large -Scale Food Fortification  
(see Table 1) may be examined . In India, 
various organisations are already engaged in 
developing Vitamin D -fortified products like 
biscuits. These can be distributed to at -risk 
populations under public nutrition programmes such as Mission POSHAN 2.0.  
 Allow Fortification with Both Vitamin D₂ and D₃: Currently, Vitamin D fortification in India 
is limited to plant-based forms of Vitamin D. Expanding the scope to include animal-based 
Vitamin D – with appropriate non-vegetarian labelling – would allow consumers to make 
                                                           
9  https://dsel.education.gov.in/sites/default/files/schemes_guidelines/Guidelines_PM%20POSHAN_SCHEM E.pdf; 
https://www.niti.gov.in/sites/default/files/2022-06/Take-home-ration-report-30_06_2022.pdf (Last accessed on July 29, 2025). 


--- PAGE 10 ---
5 
informed choices based  on their dietary preferences.  While NIFT EM and others are 
conducting R&D on Vitamin D3 from plant sources, industry buy-in and the engagement 
of healthcare professionals are needed to help in the commercialisation of such products 
and to spread kn owledge and reduce misconceptions about Vitamin D from plant and 
animal-based sources.  
 Create a Multi -stakeholder Platform to Discuss  and Share Research on  Bioavailability 
and Stability of Vitamin D Forms:  NIFTEM is conducting analysis on the bioavailability, 
stability and absorption rates of different forms of Vitamin D (e.g., D ₂ vs. D₃) in various 
food matrices. However, the food processing industry is often concerned about the 
potential loss of intellectual  property (IP) during the research process; strengthening IP 
protection further is, therefore, essential. A well-designed multi-stakeholder platform can 
facilitate collaboration and serve as a forum for discussing and sharing research in a secure 
and structured manner.  
 Work with ICMR -NIN and FSSAI to Make Vitamin D Fortified Food a part of Dietary 
Guidelines 2024: The 2024 Dietary Guidelines  by ICMR -NIN highlight sunlight as a key 
source of Vitamin D but does not mention food as a vehicle to reduce Vitamin D deficiency. 
MoFPI may work with ICMR-NIN and FSSAI to include Vitamin D rich and fortified foods as 
part of the addendum to 2025 Dietary Guidelines. While it will help the consumer adopt 
a rich diet, it will also help the industry adopt fortification during food processing.  
 Work with Industry to Build Consensus on Mandatory Fortification: It is necessary to 
engage with industry to understand their concerns (such as cost implications, 
reformulation challenges, compliance burden, etc.) and provide targeted support to help 
shift from voluntary to mandatory fortification.    
5.2 Support Research and Innovation in Vitamin D Fortification 
Targeted research and development are essential to support the advancement of Vitamin D 
fortification in India. NIFTEM, in collaboration with  companies like Fermenta Biotech, are 
already working towards developing plant -based sources of Vitamin D. Such collaborations 
may be encouraged. Other areas of research may include the following: 
 Preserving Vitamin D during Cooking:  Vitamin D is relatively stable during cooking; 
however, repeated boiling and exposure to high temperatures, such as those used in slow 
cooking and frying, can reduce the content of Vitamin D in food. This underscores the need 
for further research on the retention of Vitamin D after frying, particularly in the context 
of Indian culinary practices. 
 Exploring Innovative Fortification Techniques:  Techniques such as ultraviolet ( UV) 
exposure of mushrooms to increase their Vitamin D content are already underway. These 
innovations should be studied further to assess how they can be scaled and applied to 
other food processing methods.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
6 
 Develop more Vitamin D Fortified Products: There is a need to develop new Vitamin D -
fortified products, (such as ready-to-eat snacks, protein bars and bakery items) to increase 
options for the consumer. All newly developed fortified products must undergo rigorous 
testing and food trials to ensure they are safe, effective and acceptable to consumers. 
 Comparative Analysis of Vitamin D ₂ and D ₃: R&D can be supported to compare the 
effectiveness, bioavailability and cost-efficiency of Vitamin D₂ and D₃. 
The above  areas of research  require sustained investment and institutional support 
through targeted funding, innovation grants and public -private partnerships. MoFPI can 
play a key role in supporting a nationwide “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”  campaign 
by integrating these research priorities and collaborating with the Ministry of Finance to 
secure dedicated funding for the campaign.    
5.3 Launching Targeted Pilot Programmes through Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships 
The MoFPI may collaborate with ICMR-NIN (MoHFW), Ministry of Women and Child 
Development (MoWCD) and organisations such as GAIN, the Gates Foundation, ANVKA 
Foundation, etc., to launch pilot food fortification projects in high-risk districts and among 
vulnerable population groups. The ICMR-NIN Survey for Assessment of Markers of Population 
Health Activity, Diet and Anthropometry  (SAMPADA)10 can be used to identify the targeted 
districts and vulnerable groups for pilots and fortified foods like biscuits can be given to check 
efficacy, ensuring that portions are controlled.  
5.4 Incentivising Fortified Food Production and Consumption 
The MoFPI can work with the Ministry of Finance to promote the production of Vitamin D 
fortified food by providing nutrition linked incentives to manufacturers for mandatory 
fortification and for R&D in Vitamin D fortified products.  
5.5 Capacity Building of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for Vitamin D 
Fortification 
The MoFPI can strengthen Vitamin D fortification efforts by building the capacity of MSMEs. 
This can be achieved through targeted training programmes, technical support and simplified 
compliance guidance, enabling MSMEs to adopt fortification practices effectively. 
Organisations such as the GAIN can support these efforts by providing toolkits, technological 
assistance and best practices for cost-effective and safe food fortification. 
To conclude, NIFT EM under MoFPI is actively working on food fortification with essential 
micronutrients, including Vitamin D. The MoFPI is well-connected with the food industry and 
by embedding nutrition in food processing and working with other government agencies and 
stakeholders, they can make fortified foods reach the most vulnerable, M oFPI can play a 
transformative role in realising a “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”. 
                                                           
10  SAMPADA is India’s first diet and bio-marker survey covering 36 States and Union Territories (UTs), with a sample size of 2.5 lakh 
individuals and a sub-sample of 30,000 specifically tested for micronutrient deficiency, including Vitamin D. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
7 
References 
Adams, A. M., Ahmed, R., Latif, A. H. M. M., Rasheed, S., Das, S. K., Hasib, E., Farzana, F. D., 
Ferdous, F., Ahmed, S., & Faruque, A. (2017).  Impact of fortified biscuits on 
micronutrient deficiencies among primary school children in Bangladesh. Public 
Library of Science (PLoS) ONE,  12(4), e0174673. 
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0174673 (Last accessed on July 23, 2025).  
Aguiar, M., Andronis, L., Pallan, M., Högler, W., & Frew, E. (2019).  The economic case for 
prevention of population Vitamin D de ficiency: a modelling study using data from 
England and Wales. European Journal of Clinical Nutrition,  74(5), 825 –833. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41430-019-0486-x (Last accessed on July 30, 2025). 
Bhadada, S. K., Chadha, M., Sriram, U., Pal, R., Paul, T.V., Khadgawat, R., Joshi, A., Bansal, B., 
Kapoor, N., Aggarwal, A., Garg, M. K., Tandon, N., Gupta, S., Kotwal, N., Mahadevan, 
S., Mukhopadhyay, S., Mukherjee, S., Kukreja, S. C., Rao, S. D., & Mithal, A. (2021).  
The Indian Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ISBMR) position statement for the 
diagnosis and treatment of osteoporosis in adults. Archives of Osteoporosis . 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34176015/ (Last accessed on January 21, 2025). 
Ethgen, O., Hiligsmann, M., Burlet, N., Reginster, J. Y . (2015). Public health impact and cost-
effectiveness of dairy products supplemented with Vitamin D in prevention of 
osteoporotic fractures. Archives of Public Health . 73:48. doi: 10.1186/s13690 -015-
0099-3. PMID: 26668740; PMCID: PMC4677432. 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26668740/ (Last accessed on July 30, 2025). 
FAO, IFAD, UNICEF, WFP and WHO. (2024).  The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the 
World 2024 – Financing to end hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition in all its forms. 
Rome. https://doi.org/10.4060/cd1254en (Last accessed on July 16, 2025). 
Mukherjee, A., Chaudhry, A., Khatwani, L., Khanna, T., and Verma, P . (2025). “Roadmap to 
Address Vita min D Deficiency in India”, Academic Foundation and ICRIER, 2025. 
(Report) ISBN: 9789332706866. https://icrier.org/pdf/ES_Roadmap-to-Address-
Vitamin-D_Deficiency.pdf (Last accessed on June 26, 2025). 
Nitish, A., Anand, P . K., Swarnkanta, L., Dhruvendra, P . (2024). Vitamin D deficiency among 
pregnant women in India. Biomedical Informatics,  31;20(12):2029-2033. doi: 
10.6026/9732063002002029. PMID: 40230908; PMCID: PMC11993426. 
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11993426/ (Last accessed on May 30, 
2024). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
8 
Reddy, K. A. (2020).  Prevalence of rickets: a clinical study. International Journal of 
Contemporary Paediatrics,  7(3), 593. https://doi.org/10.18203/2349-
3291.ijcp20200684 (Last accessed on May 26, 2025). 
UNICEF (2023). Large‑scale Food Fortification for the Prevention of Micronutrient Deficiencies 
in Children, Women and Communities: Guidance Note. New York: UNICEF, 2023. 
https://www.unicef.org/media/151001/file/Largescale%20food%20fortification%20f
or%20the%20prevention%20of%20micronutrient%20deficiencies%20in%20children,
%20women%20and%20communities.pdf (Last accessed on August 08, 2025). 

--- PAGE 14 ---
9 
Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) is an independent  
public policy organization known for providing informative and insightful ideas to accelerate 
India's inclusive development. Established in 1981 with the motto of "linking India with the 
world," it has grown to become one of India's most well-known policy research think tanks in 
the areas of Agriculture, Climate Change, Digital Economy, Economic Growth, Jobs and 
Gender, and Trade, Industry and Investment. While serving as a trusted advisor to the 
governments, corporates, multilaterals and foundations, ICRI ER continues to function as a 
bridge between the academic world and the policy arena. 
ICRIER has two office locations in Delhi; in the institutional complex of India Habitat Centre 
and a new office at the Institutional Area, Sector 6, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi. 
ICRIER's Board of Governors include leading academicians, policymakers, and representatives 
from the private sector. Mr. Pramod Bhasin is ICRIER's chairperson. 
ICRIER conducts thematic research in the following five thrust areas: 
 Growth, Employment and Macroeconomics (GEM) 
 Trade, Investment and External Relations (TIER) 
 Agriculture Policy, Sustainability and Innovation (APSI) 
 Digital Economy, Start-ups and Innovation (DESI) 
 Climate Change, Urbanization and Sustainability (CCUS) 
To effectively disseminate  research findings, ICRIER organises workshops, seminars and 
conferences to bring together academicians, policymakers, representatives from industry and 
media to create a more informed understanding on issues of major policy interest. ICRIER 
routinely invites distinguished scholars and policymakers from around the world to deliver 
public lectures and give seminars on economic themes of interest to contemporary India. 
  


--- PAGE 15 ---
10 
 
The ANVKA Foundation, a Section 8 registered non-governmental organization, is committed 
to fostering holistic community development and social transformation. Led by renowned 
surgeon and philanthropist Dr. Aashish Chaudhry, the foundation’s initiatives span education, 
social welfare, cultural preservation, economic empowerment, medical reli ef and 
environmental protection, all aimed at uplifting underprivileged communities. Rooted in 
practical philosophy, art, aesthetics and psychoanalytic insights, ANVKA addresses critical 
societal issues such as education, gender equality, ecology, governance and public health, with 
a focus on both rural and urban areas. Collaborating with government and community-driven 
initiatives, ANVKA ensures comprehensive support across diverse needs. 
At the heart of ANVKA’s mission is the promotion of innovative education that integrates the 
socio-political, economic, spiritual and aesthetic dimensions. The foundation advocates the 
re-education of relationships, challenging patriarchal norms and fostering mutual respect and 
dignity to build a more equitable society. AN VKA works to dismantle oppressive social 
structures, focusing on creating a future grounded in love, understanding and equality. 
Additionally, the foundation promotes environmental sustainability and livelihoods that are 
ecologically responsible and social ly fair, recognizing the interconnectedness of all life and 
striving for harmony between humans and the environment. Their efforts also include 
promoting active citizenship by encouraging individuals to engage in participatory democracy 
and take an active role in shaping their communities. 
ANVKA’s health interventions prioritize preventive care for vulnerable populations, 
emphasizing the importance of building a culture of compassionate community support. 
Through these initiatives, the foundation empowers c ommunities to actively participate in 
shaping their futures, fostering social justice and promoting inclusivity. ANVKA’s core areas of 
focus include education, gender equality, empowerment, environmental protection, 
community development, and health and we ll-being. Their innovative educational programs 
are grounded in lived experiences, integrating multiple dimensions, while their gender 
equality initiatives challenge societal norms to build respectful, equitable relationships. The 
foundation promotes livel ihoods that are economically viable and environmentally 
sustainable, while also advocating for a harmonious relationship with nature. 
Guided by values of holistic well-being, community engagement, social justice, sustainability 
and innovation, ANVKA strives to build a just, inclusive and thriving world for all. Together, we 
can create a brighter, more equitable future. 


--- PAGE 16 ---
11 
 
 
Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) 
Our Offices: 
4th Floor, Core 6A, India Habitat Centre, Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003  
The Isher Building, Plot No. 16-17, Pushp Vihar, Institutional Area, Sector 6, New Delhi-110017 
O: +91 11 43112400, F: +91 11 24620180 | W: www.icrier.org | E: info@icrier.res.in 
