--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
Contents 
I. Introduction .....................................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
II. Analysis – role of MSMEs in fulfilling the SDGs ............................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere ….…………………………………………………………………………4 Goal 2. 
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.. ..... Error! 
Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. .........Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….….. 10 
Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. ...............Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all …………... 14  
Goal 7. Ensure access to afforadble, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all ………………... 16  
Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and 
decent work for all. ..............................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster 
innovation. ...........................................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries. ................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable ………….….. 24  
Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. .............Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. .......Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable 
development.. ......................................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.Error! Bookmark 
not defined. 
Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provi de access to justice for 
all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. ....Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable 
development. .................................................................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.7 
Bibliography .............................................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro-, Small and Medium-sized 
Enterprises (MSMEs) and their role in 
achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This paper was prepared under the project supported by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development Sub-Fund of the UN Peace and Development Fund (UNPDF), of which the 
People’s Republic of China is a major contributor. 
 
This report was prepared by Ms. Raniya Sobir, consultant, for the United Nations 
Department of Economic and Social Affairs Division for Sustainable Development Goals. The 
views expressed in this report are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of 
the United Nations. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
3 
Table of Contents 
I. Introduction ............................................................................................................................................... 4 
II. Analysis - Role of MSMEs in fulfilling the SDGs ..................................................................................... 5 
Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere ..................................................................................... 5 
Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable 
agriculture ................................................................................................................................................ 7 
Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages ............................................... 9 
Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning 
opportunities for all ............................................................................................................................... 11 
Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls ................................................. 13 
Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all .............. 15 
Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all ................... 17 
Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all ................................................................................................... 19 
Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster 
innovation .............................................................................................................................................. 21 
Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries................................................................... 23 
Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable ............... 25 
Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns ............................................... 27 
Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts ......................................... 29 
Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable 
development.......................................................................................................................................... 31 
Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably 
manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity 
loss ......................................................................................................................................................... 33 
Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels ..................... 35 
Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for 
sustainable development ..................................................................................................................... 37 
Bibliography ............................................................................................................................................... 39 
 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
4 
I. Introduction 
 
This report aims to demonstrate the relevance, role and contributions of Micro-, Small- and Medium- Enterprises 
(MSMEs) to the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The report examines the role of MSMEs to 
each of the SDGs. The report unpacks the role of MSMEs in economic activity, in creating employment and 
incomes, particularly for the poor and marginalized groups, as service providers (for  example in education, 
health, water and sanitation) and as energy users/polluters with environmental footprints. Through these lenses, 
it is possible to establish direct and indirect linkages between MSMEs and the seventeen goals.  
The SDG targets are ambitious and require transformation of public and private activities. This transformation is 
associated with adapting new business models, bringing in new innovation/technology and doing business 
differently – more sustainably and more ethically. This process  opens up new business opportunities for the 
private sector in general and particularly for MSMEs. According to the Business and Sustainable Development 
Commission, sustainable business models could open economic opportunities worth $12 trillion and create 380 
million jobs by 2030, with more than 50 per cent1 being located in developing countries.  Such opportunities for 
MSMEs have been identified under each goal. The discussion also focuses on selected business examples and 
good practice initiatives that support MSMEs and in turn contribute to the achievement of SDGs.  
 
Background on MSMEs 
 
According to the World Bank, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are defined as follows – micro 
enterprises: 1–9 employees; small: 10–49 employees; and medium: 50–249 employees.2  However, the local 
definition of MSMEs vary from country to country, and is based not only on number of employees, but also by inclusion 
of other variables such as turnaround and assets. 
MSMEs play an important role in the wider eco-system of firms. Start-ups and young firms, which are generally small or 
micro firms, are the primary source of net job creation in many countries and are the driving force of innovation and 
sustainability in the private sector. 
There are about 365-445 million MSMEs in emerging markets: 25-30 million are formal SMEs, 55-70 million are 
formal micro, and 285-345 million are informal enterprises.3 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
5 
II. Analysis - Role of MSMEs in fulfilling the SDGs  
 
Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 
   
The main focus of the goal is to eradicate and reduce poverty based on national definitions. 
Goal 1 has seven targets, including ensuring access to social protection, access to 
economic resources/assets, improving climate and disaster resilience of the poor, 
mobilising resources and strengthening national and international policies to address 
poverty.  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 1? 
 
MSMEs create employment that lift people out of poverty . The latest global estimate suggests that 11 percent 
of the world’s population, or 783 million people, lived below the extreme poverty threshold in 2013.4 Most of the 
poor in developing countries are not employed or do not earn 
enough to lift themselves out  of poverty. Job creation in the 
private sector has proven  to be a main driver in the fight 
against poverty. Over the past 30 years, the private sector has 
contributed to a sharp decline in the share of the population in 
the developing world living below t he poverty line from 52 
percent to 22 percent. 5 MSMEs contribute significantly to the 
employment creation process of the private sector.  In 
emerging markets, 4 out of 5 new positions in the formal 
sector were created by MSMEs, which is abo ut 90 percent of 
total employment.6  
Informal enterprises engage poor and marginalized populations . In lower income economies, a large share of 
MSMEs are informal enterprises and serve  as a source of livelihood for the base of the pyramid population, 
consisting of 4 billion people that earn less than US $3000 a year.7 It is estimated that more than 70 percent of 
the workforce in developing countries operates in the informal economy either through self-employment or from 
work in enterprises that are not legally registered bu sinesses.8 Given the flexibility of the informal economy, it 
provides opportunities for the poor, including women and youth, to earn money. According to the International 
Labour Organization (ILO), the majority of those employed in the informal economy lack social protection, rights 
at work and decent working conditions .9 Informal enterprises offer an avenue for interventions to formalize 
MSMEs and to provide access to social protection for those that they employ. Given the scale of informal 
employment, particularly in developing economies, support in formalizing MSMEs would be a step to achieving 
Goal 1. 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal . They 
can set and enforce strict policie s and practices that do not discriminate against the poor. 10  MSMEs can also 
recruit, train, and employ local community members, including those living in poverty, and integrate them into 
the MSME value chain.11 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will h elp achieve the SDGs. The ambitious push for eliminating 
poverty through the SDGs offers a new range of business models and opportunities that are being tapped by the 
private sector, including MSMEs. Although the purchasing power of the poor is limited, th e cumulative effect is 
large. According to a report by the World Resources Institute (WRI), the base of the pyramid has substantial 


--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
6 
purchasing power, constituting a $5 trillion global consumer market. 12 They offer a market that is increasingly 
being connect ed by mobile phones. The scale of the market and mobile phone penetration provides 
opportunities for market -based solutions in delivering services that will lift people out of poverty. There are 
encouraging entrepreneurial ventures, for example, providing affordable water filters or home treatment systems 
so that households can purify water for themselves, offering low -cost solar-powered lighting systems that can 
provide a few hours of light in the evening, or introducing efficient, multi -fuel cook stoves. Many of these 
initiatives apply micro-franchising.  
 
Small businesses help alleviate poverty through micro-franchising 
 
Micro-franchising uses elements of traditional franchising and targets small businesses. It is broadly defined as small 
businesses that can easily be replicated by following proven marketing and operational concepts. The study ‘Poverty 
Alleviation as a Business’ documented micro -franchising examples where profitable supply chains have been created 
through small businesses d elivering useful products or services that are directly alleviating poverty. Some of these 
examples are:13  
Village Farm and Forestry programme. A female entrepreneur in Bangladesh runs a village farm and forestry programme 
as a social insurance scheme. She runs one of the 2500 private nurseries that deliver almost 100 million tree saplings 
every year. Trees have become a profitable crop for 650,000 families; they serve as an asset as they can be sold at any 
point. The tree can be chopped in case of an emergency (e.g. a child‘s sickness).  
The treadle pump. Over 1 million pumps have been sold to small and marginal farmers. On half an acre, they can grow 
more vegetables or other crops and make an average additional income of $ 100 per year. Around 10,000 micro -
enterprises supply, sell and install the pumps in Bangladesh, India and Nepal.  
Micro–concrete roofing tiles. Over 2,000 workshops operate in more than 35 countries; they produce 150,000 roofs per 
year. The technology is supported by an international network. The cost-effective building materials can have a big scope 
for small enterprises and contribute to closing the housing gap. 
 
  

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
7 
Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture  
 
This goal has seven targets. The goal focuses on ending hunger, eliminating all forms of 
malnutrition, increasing productivity of farmers, particularly that of small-scale producers and 
sustainability in food production/agriculture sector. Other targets focus on international 
cooperation to promote research, to address global trade of agricultural goods and food 
prices that threaten food security. 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 2? 
 
Smallholder farmers and agricultural -focused MSMEs directly contribute to the goal. 
MSMEs directly link to SDG Target 2.3 and promote interventions to develop capacity of 
small-scale farmers and agriculture -focused MSMEs. 14 A large share  of farmers in the 
developing world are small-scale producers. The percentage of small-scale food producers 
for countries with available data in Africa, Asia and Latin America ranges from about 40 
to about 85 percent. In Nepal, the proportion of small-scale food producers is 43 percent, 
whereas in Armenia and Nicaragua it is about 85 percent. 15 In most other countries, the 
proportion of small-scale food producers is between 50 to 70 percent. 16 The capacity of 
small-scale producers needs strengthening because their incomes and productivity are 
systematically lower than those of large food producers. Incomes of small-scale producers 
range from a few hundred US dollars per year in countries such as Kenya, Tanzania,  
Uganda and Ethiopia, to over US $3, 000 per year in countries such as Vietnam, Iraq and 
Mongolia.17 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal .  MSMEs can 
support and encourage small -scale farming, ensure sourcing from local entities and small-scale producers for 
office purposes as much as possible and d emonstrate transparency in the agricultural supply chain  particularly 
when sourcing. 18 Malnutrition costs the global economy as much as five percent of glob al GDP in loss of 
productivity and direct healthcare spending.19 Given that MSMEs tend to be labour-intensive, improved nutrition 
status can help produce a healthy workforce and contribute to the improved productivity of MSMEs. MSMEs can 
therefore be incent ivised to conduct nutrition education and awareness programmes to improve household 
dietary habits. These initiatives can promote consumption of food from small-scale producers at the same time. 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve  the SDGs. Climate-smart agricultural 
approaches can help to achieve several aspects of the goal, including the sustainability of the agricultural value 
chain, and at the same time increasing productivity of farmers . In India and Rwanda, food waste reducin g 
technologies minimise post -harvest losses  and have resulted in  reduced losses by over 60 percent – and 
increased smallholder farmers’ incomes by more than 30 percent. 20 The report of the Business & Sustainable 
Development Commission estimates that address ing challenges in the food and agriculture sector in line with 
the SDGs have a potential value in 2030 of US  $1.8 trillion in current prices. 21 This includes a range of areas 
such as reducing food waste, digital services for the agriculture sector, farming technology, micro -irrigation, 
forest ecosystems and restoring degraded land. Areas for innovation and new business solutions identified by 
the Agri-Food Chain Coalition of Europe include new plant breeding methods and products, animal diets and 
specialty feed ingredients, which can help reduce the environmental footprint of animal farming, agricultural 
technologies, including genetically -modified organisms that help develop new seeds, manufacturing of 
agricultural machinery that reduces carbon emissions, an d handling plants and fertilizers through safety 
standards management of agricultural waste and tools to improve fertilizer use. 22 While MSMEs are already 


--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
8 
active in these new areas, support to MSME capacity -building and access to technology for small and me dium 
agriculture-based enterprises can contribute significantly to the achievement of Goal 2. 
 
 Business examples supporting MSMEs  
 
The Okata Farm and Food Processing. Founded by a women entrepreneur, Okata Farm and Food Processing is a 
small enterprise in Ghana with 32 employees. The enterprise worked with over 3200 farmers producing organic crops 
including maize, rice and soy. 80% of the farm ers who Okata works with are women. Focusing not only on business 
profits, Okata has won national and international awards recognizing its socially and ecologically -responsible 
business models. The company helps women farmers gain access to financial resou rces and provide trainings for 
them on organic farming and food fortification. Contributions of the company has helped women and youth in 
communities earn more income, in addition to planting organic crops with higher nutrition and market values. In 
December 2017, Okata Farm and Food Processing was selected as the second -best farm of Ghana with the 
recognition of their contributions to improving food and nutrition security among low income population group among 
communities they work with.  
 
 
  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
9 
Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
  
This goal has 13 targets. The targets cover a range of areas from reducing maternal, neonatal 
and infant mortality, eliminating epidemics, reducing non -communicable diseases, 
addressing substance abuse, tobacco control, reducing deaths from road accidents and 
injuries, and from exposure to pollution and achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC). The 
targets also focus on promoting global cooperation on research for vaccines and  medicines, 
health financing and addressing global and national health risks.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 3? 
 
MSMEs are healthcare providers. The healthcare sector involves a range of 
business areas for private sector participation from health services to retail 
to life sciences and medical education. In a survey conducted by the AXA 
Group and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Finance 
Initiative's Principles for Sustainable Insurance on the impacts of climate 
change on MSMEs, 9 percent of the 1,104 MSMEs surveyed were involved 
in the healthcare sector, showing a relatively high number in this area .23 
Most healthcare companies in Africa are owner -managed and small 
(typically less than US $0.5 million in profits).24  
MSMEs are bridging the healthcare gap  through better-quality healthcare services and the provision of a wider 
range of basic laboratory  and imaging services. 25 Further, MSMEs are progressively taking the leading role as 
innovators of low -cost, high -volume delivery models, driven by increased competition for the  same customer 
base. However, MSMEs are facing several challenges , such as the lack of strict regulatory standards and the 
lack of resources to hire professionals with skills to manage the operational inefficiencies .26 Supporting small 
and medium healthcare enterprises to overcome these challenges can contribute to improving healthcare 
provision and progress towards this goal. 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  They 
may make investments in health a priority in business preparations. They should also offer employee health 
benefits,27 and encourage staff to explore ideas they have for activities that offer them a break and re-energize 
them at work.28 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The health sector faces a range of 
challenges from in effectiveness of drugs to communicable diseases, increasing non -communicable diseases, 
and growing elderly population and needs, skills and supply gaps in developing countries. To achieve the goal, 
these challenges need to be addressed. The report of the B usiness & Sustainable Development Commission 
estimates that these challenges have a potential value of US $1.8 trillion in 2030 in current prices.29 Some of 
these new areas that are critical to delivering the goal include risk pooling, activity services, low -cost surgery, 
better disease management, telehealth, remote patient monitoring, detection of counterfeit drugs, electronic 
medical records, advanced genomics, weight management programmes and healthcare training. MSMEs already 
play a key role in these areas. Existing MSMEs and start -ups can be further supported to capitalize on these 
business opportunities to achieve the goal. Increased healthcare spending can boost business opportunities and 
service areas for MSMEs. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that achieving the SDG health targets 
would require new investments increasing over time from an initial US  $134 billion annually to $371 b illion, or 
$58 per person, by 2030 under the ‘ambitious scenario’ and new investments increasing from an initial US $104 
billion a year to $274 billion, or $41 per person, by 2030 under the ‘progress scenario’.30 
 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
10 
e-Health MSMEs in Africa  
 
E-health includes a range of products and services that integrate technology to deliver healthcare and are lucrative for 
MSMEs. Emerging technology products include wearable patches that can diagnose heart conditions, sensors that monitor 
asthma medication intake and detect poor air quality, and glucose monitors that send diabetics’ data straight to 
smartphones. In 2017, e-health represented one third of African start-ups.31 Select e-health MSME examples are:  
Helium Health 32 is a small company that originated from Nigeria, which has developed a software system for health 
records and hospital management. It supports hospitals and clinics in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, with a user-friendly 
electronic health record and hospital management system that helps client hospitals to streamline their practices, reduce 
waste and increase their standards of care. 
Peek Vision33 is a Kenyan company that saw a market opportunity in the bulky, fragile and expensive equipment used for 
eye examinations. The firm’s mobile application and US $5 clip allows anyone with a smartphone to turn their handset 
into a diagnostic tool with the ophthalmological accuracy of a US $25,000 camera, able to spot conditions from cataracts 
to glaucoma. 
Kasha is an online store that provides healthcare products to women in Africa. They include hard-to-get products, such as 
emergency contraceptives and condoms with a guaranteed traceability.34 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
11 
Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and 
promote lifelong learning opportunities for all  
 
The goal has 10 targets, which focus on provision of universal and equitable primary and 
secondary education, increasing access to early childhood education (ECE) and vocational 
and tertiary education, and achieving literacy and numeracy. The targets emphasize 
sustainable education and upgrading education facilities with gender-sensitive and disability-
friendly features. Other targets include increasing global cooperation to improve learning 
environments, scholarships, training opportunities and skill development of educators.    
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 4? 
 
MSMEs as providers of technical and vocational 
education. MSMEs, through work-based learning 
programmes (e.g. apprenticeship, career 
education and internship), could become 
informal educational service providers, and 
share technical and competency skills required 
by employers. Contributions of MSMEs to 
Technical and Vocational Education and Training 
(TVET) programmes have been noted in different 
countries in addressing the skill gaps and 
promoting lifelong learning. More efforts would 
still be needed to collect evidence on 
contributions of MSMEs to expanding access to 
formal and informal education services.  
MSMEs as complementary formal education providers. In many developing countries, p ublic schools alone are 
insufficient to ensure the inclusiveness of education services needed to reach the targets included in SDG 4. In 
many countries, MSMEs conducting business in the education sector c ould provide complementary education 
services, expanding the access to educational services to  the general public. 35 For example, in a recent study 
conducted by the Center for Education Innovations tracks, the growth of low-cost private schools had more than 
doubled in India since 1993, while in Kenya, low cost private school enrolment has tripled since 1997 , which 
has contributed to expanding access to educational services . MSMEs could contribute to achieving SDG 4 by 
expanding inclusive access to education services and improving skills of youth and women for obtaining decent 
jobs.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Create programmes (e.g., apprentice, career education, internships, work-based learning 
programmes, etc.) that give students earlier access to the corporate environment. 36 
▪ Provide employees with continuous learning opportunities to improve their skills for their current 
and future employment.37 
▪ Improve awareness of employees on the importance of ECE, support access of employees to 
quality childcare, mental stimulation and learning through play. 38 


--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
12 
▪ Use their voice in addition to investment in education programming. MSMEs can increase their 
engagement at high-level policy discussions by lobbying for increased public funding and 
prioritization on education related issues such as girls’ education. 39 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The SDG agenda provi des an 
ambitious framework to address education sector challenges. Innovation can help bring about the 
transformation needed to meet this ambitious agenda, and MSMEs could contribute to the creation and 
innovation for expanding the scope of inclusive education. This includes online/remote learning and educational 
opportunities, and digital education for development of skills of education professionals. The global market for 
educational products and services is growing rapidly (by nearly 50 percent from 2012 to 2017), primarily driven 
by an expanding middle class in emerging economies. 40 This trend indicates greater opportunities for business. 
Existing education-based enterprises and start -ups need to be supported through expanded access to finance 
and innovations to fully tap these opportunities and help achieve this goal.  
 
Innovative MSMEs providing education  
 
Kidogo.41 While 90 percent of brain development takes place between ages 0 to 5, 150 million children across the globe 
do not have access to ECE. The SDGs reassert the importance of ECE, as well as the potential of ECEs for social enterprises. 
One successful example is Kidogo, which is a social enterprise that provides high-quality, affordable early childhood care 
and education for families living in Africa’s urban slums. They build early childhood development “hubs” that provide 
affordable, high -quality childcare a nd pre-school services using certified early childhood development teachers and a 
customized curriculum. These hubs serve as best practice early childhood development models and offer quality care, 
including nutritious meals and health monitoring. Kidogo micro-franchises their model by providing training, support, and 
resources to assist local women to open high-quality and affordable home-run care centers. These women receive Kidogo’s 
“business-in-a-box” kit, which includes curriculum materials, several we eks of intensive training, a franchising package 
with resources such as signage and uniforms, facility renovations, and training in the basics of small business 
management, including financial literacy and marketing. 
Moringa School. 42 A partnership between Moringa School, a Kenya -based coding school, and Hack Reactor, a coding 
trainer based in the U.S., identifies children with strong tech potential and gives them top-notch web development training, 
in the process creating a future talent pool for the scheme’s partners, which include Safaricom and Barclays.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
13 
Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls  
 
This goal has nine targets. The targets push for ending discrimination based on gender, 
ending violence against women and harmful practices against women and girls, promoting 
participation of women in decision making, improving women’s access to economic 
resources, technology and reproductive health services, and strengthening overall policies 
and laws to promote gender equality.  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 5? 
 
A significant proportion of MSMEs are women -owned/led.  Based on the 
findings from the International Finance Corporation (IFC)’s Enterprise Finance 
Gap Assessment Database, it is estimated that globally there are roughly 9.34 
million formal women -owned MSMEs in over 140 assessed countries, which 
is approximately one third of all formal MSMEs. The findings show  that East 
Asia and the Pacific ha ve the highest overall number, though when weighted 
by the number of women in the region, Europe and Central Asia have the most. 
Based on either measure, South Asia has the least. 43 Formal women-owned 
MSMEs are well engaged in all sectors. They are more likely to have a larger 
presence in the retail and wholesale, and healthcare, beauty, and cosmetics 
sectors. They have close to equal footing in the tourist, transport, hotels and 
restaurants, services, and trade sectors, and a slightly lower presence in the 
manufacturing, agriculture, and construction sectors. 44  However, women -
owned and women-led enterprises face many challenges, most critical being 
limited access to finance. Other barriers include lack of business skills and 
access to networks. Strengthening capacity of women-owned/led MSMEs can 
be a source of economic empowerment for women.  
MSMEs employ women. A study by IFC shows that women constitute a fifth of the total workforce in the MSME 
sector.45 According to data available, the rate of women’s employment in registered MSMEs is 20.45 percent 
and 13.02 percent in unregistered  enterprises. 46 Disaggregated data across MSMEs shows that women’s 
employment, like ownership, is the highest in the case of micro enterprises, followed by small and then medium 
enterprises. 47 However, women are employed mostly in low -skilled jobs and face l ow wages, inappropriate 
working conditions, and an absence of social security, maternity benefits or sexual harassment provisions. 
Improving employment conditions of MSMEs can help to achieve women’s active economic participation to 
achieve the goal.  
Inclusive finance can bridge the gender gap. Financial inclusion can be a particularly powerful driver of gender 
equality. Eighty percent of women-owned businesses with credit needs are either unserved or underserved, a US 
$1.7 trillion financing gap .48 Women entrepreneurs, particularly those from rural poo r communities, are often  
disadvantaged in growing their business es, lacking land deeds and/or collateral needed to access formal 
sources of credit. Evidence shows that women are stronger savers than men,  more responsible borrowers and 
calculated risk -takers.  According to the Bank of New York Mellon, increasing women’s access to financial 
products and services could unlock $330 billion in annual global revenue. 49 Financial institutions, therefore, 
need to be incentivized to cater to women entrepreneurs. A good example is Women’s World Banking Capital 
Partners Fund, which is a private equity limited partnership that makes direct equity investments in women -
focused financial institutions. Their investment str ategy builds on the belief that investors can influence 
institutions to ensure that women clients are part of financial institutions’ growth strategy. Similarly, Asia Impact 
Investment Fund, co-founded by Credit Suisse, deploys capital in businesses that empower women.50 


--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
14 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal. Similar 
to large companies, MSMEs can be encouraged to adopt gender inclusive policies within their business practice 
and in their value chains. This includes ensuring equal pay and benefits for work of equal value, zero -tolerance 
towards all forms of violence at work, supporting women with flexible work arrangements, providing child and 
dependent care support, promoting women in managem ent positions and increasing gender balance in the 
teams.51 This could be achieved by adopting the Women’s Empowerment Principles, which are being promoted 
by UN Women and UN Global Compact for firms of all sizes in all sectors.52 Many other tools exist that businesses, 
including MSMEs, can use to promote gender inclusivity in their value chains. MSME entrepreneurs need to be 
informed and trained on adopting these tools to change business practices.   
 
Gender balance in business promotes sustainability  
Women employees and women leaders in business prioritize sustainability. A study by Net Impact found that 60 percent 
of employed women said it was very important to work for a company that prioritises social and environmental 
responsibility, compared to 38 percent of men.53 Evidence also shows that companies with more women on their boards 
are more likely to invest in renewable power generation, low-carbon products, and energy efficiency.54  
Women-owned enterprises and women leaders are core to changing business practice and culture towards sustainability.  
An example is Green Strategy.55  Anna Brismar is the founder and owner of Green Strategy, a consultancy firm specialized 
in circularity and sustainability issues of the fashion, apparel and textile industries on a global scale. She is the owner and 
developer of the online platform Circularfashion.com, which is the world’s first platform dedicated exclusively to circularity 
issues in the fashion, apparel and textile industries. She is also the founder and head of the Circular Fashion Network, an 
international network of professionals working with circularity and sustainability issues in the fashion and textile 
industries.56 Principles of design being promoted in the company include durability and longevity, use of nontoxic and 
biodegradable materials, and ethical attitudes towards society and environment. They are also promoting recycling 
through the development of effective and safe technologies. 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
15 
Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water 
and sanitation for all  
 
This goal has eight targets. They focus on ensuring universal and equitable access to safe 
water and safe sanitation, improving water quality, achieving water efficiency in sectors, 
protecting water-based ecosystems, promoting integrated water resource management, 
and increasing international cooperation to transfer knowledge, capacity building and 
technology to address water and sanitation and to promote local level management of 
water and sanitation activities.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 6? 
 
MSMEs deliver water and sanitation services. The World Bank estimates an annual 
need of $114 billion between now and 2030, three times the current investment 
levels, if we are to achieve the targets related to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) 
of SDG 6.57 MSMEs fill the gap in many developing countries where the public sector 
fails to reach communities, particularly low -income families. In Asia, Africa and Latin 
America, M SMEs, either through  their own funds or loans and some equity, are 
delivering water and creating sanitation infrastructure in the rural -remote or dense -
urban areas. These MSMEs provide, in various innovative ways, safe water in cans or 
affordable water filtration systems; similarly , they provide household latrines with 
onsite waste treatment or transportation and treatment/recycling of  the waste . In 
Ghana, as in many other low - to middle -income countries, micro -enterprises are 
common in sanitation service delivery , which include the storage, collection and 
transport sections of the sanitation value chain.58 MSMEs in the water and sanitation 
sector, however, face difficulties in viability due to limitations in demand, lack of 
business and technical skills , and financial challenges such  as access to credit. 59 Capacity building of MSMEs 
in the sector can contribute to the goal. 
 
Agricultural and food supply chain MSMEs can conserve water . The agriculture sector is by far the largest user 
of freshwater, accounting for nearly 70 percent of global water withdrawals.60 Saving just a fraction of this would 
significantly alleviate water stress in other sectors, particularly in arid countries where agriculture can consume 
as much as 90 percent of available water resources. 61 MSMEs active in the agri cultural value chain can 
contribute to water savings by increasing productivity of food crops, improving water management practices and 
technologies, implementing sustainable agricultural practices, and growing fewer water-intensive crops. Capacity 
building and awareness-raising for agri-businesses and farmers is key to changing these practices. 
  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Ensure that the workplace has appropriate WA SH facilities and advocate for WASH amongst 
employees. 
▪ Prioritize water efficiency by installing best-practice technologies for water conservation. 
▪ Educate employees about the importance of water efficiency. 62 
▪ Prohibit the use of chemicals and materials that can be particularly detrimental to water quality if 
improperly disposed.63 


--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
16 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. A report by the 
World Bank in 2014 identified a potential US $1.2 trillion market for MSMEs in the developing world in the area 
of “clean technology” for the decade ending in 2023. 64 The greatest opportunities identified were in waste 
management, small hydro, water treatment and renewable energy. MSMEs are considered to be particularly well-
placed to operate in this sector as they are already engaged in areas such as construction, installati on, 
operations and maintenance  and the connection that MSMEs have to local markets. The study reports that in 
the UK, up to 90 percent of clean technology businesses are MSMEs, and this could be repl icated in the 
developing world. Safe disposal of waste is a huge challenge in many countries. The Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation has funded innovators of various new, l ow-cost sanitation tech nologies. MSMEs can contribute to 
the commercialization of such technology that is expected to have a global market valued at $6 billion by 2030.65 
MSMEs and start-ups need to be supported with market-based and technology-based solutions through capacity 
building, access to finance and expertise which in turn will contribute to the progress of this goal.  
   
 Startups with water and sanitation solutions  
 
cewas Start-Up Programme Switzerland was initiated in 2011 and targets young entrepreneurs.66 The programme consists 
of sector-relevant lectures providing the knowledge that allows participants to develop an idea, create a strong business 
model, pitch the idea to the water sector at the International Water Week in Stockholm, develop the idea and manage the 
business model. Expert coaches provide one -on-one coaching such as technical or business advice, introduce the start -
ups into their network and assist with funding options. The programme lasts for one year and as of 2018, 54 start -ups 
and MSMEs have participated. Participants include: 
Eco Solutions Forge (ESF)  was founded in 2014 as a result of participating in the cewas Start -Up Programme. ESF aims 
to change the current situation in the Ukrainian Carpathians with regards to wastewater treatment, and to offer 
sustainable sanitation solutions for the tourist industry in the region. Its main activities are consulting and teaching on 
water and sanitation issues, as well as designing and building wastewater treatment systems. Additional activities include 
designing and building public dry toilets and rainwater harvesting systems. Lately, the main focus has been on researching 
and building high-performance cold climate insulated vermifilters with biochar substrate. 
SOIL is a non-profit research and development organization focusing on sustainable provision of household sanitation and 
ecological waste treatment in Haiti. For a small monthly fee, SOIL’s social business, EkoLakay, provides over 1,000 
households with container -based sanitation (CBS) toilets a nd safely transforms all collected waste into compost. The 
revenue from toilet user fees and compost sales support ongoing project costs. SOIL’s model is one of just three household 
CBS services globally. 
 
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
17 
Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy for all 
 
This goal has five targets. They focus on ensuring energy access for all, promoting 
renewable energy, improving energy efficiency and strengthening international cooperation 
to promote clean energy research and technology and energy infrastructure.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 7? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for becoming more energy efficient.  
While individual small businesses have low environmental 
footprints, their combined impact can exceed th at of large 
businesses. MSMEs may produce more pollution than big 
businesses because of their informal nature and the resulting 
lack of regulations and supervision. 67 Studies have estimate d 
that these businesses can contribute up to 60 -70 percent of 
pollution levels in developing economies. 68  Encouraging 
MSMEs to adopt green technology and other environmentally -
friendly strategies are therefore essential to the progress on 
Goal 7. A study in India showed that an estimated 26 million 
MSME enterprises account for about 45 percent of India’s 
industrial production and 40 percent of exports; out of 400 
manufacturing clusters, nearly half comprise energy intensive sectors (metallurgy ceramics, glass, textiles, 
etc.).69 According to the study, a majority of the MSME clusters use conventional and ineffici ent technologies. 
The total energy saving potential of MSMEs in 36 clusters was identified as about 16 percent of their total energy 
consumption. The study noted that although the importance of energy efficiency was recognized by most MSMEs, 
the uptake of energy efficient measures remains low and is attributable to non -availability of technologies, lack 
of local service providers, poor technical capacities of MSMEs, and limited access to credit. 70 
MSMEs can be incentivized by larger enterprises to integrate sustainable practices in their operations . 71 
Multinational enterprises  can lead by exa mple through their market power  in demonstrating the value of  
‘sustainability premium’, i.e. higher price for a p roduct produced in a sustainable manner . They can encourage 
smaller firms in their supply chains to focus on sustainability standards. They can further benefit from investing 
in MSMEs to get access to new markets. The French multinational energy company ENGIE, for example, has set 
up a corporate impact venture fund that invests in social enterprises that aim to provide sustainable energy 
access for vulnerable populations around the world . 72  Through these investments, ENGIE offers financ ial 
resources to MSMEs in the energy sector. ENGIE also gains access to new business opportunities through 
investing in social enterprises.  
MSME finance can contribute to Goal 7. A report by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network ( CDKN) 
estimates that the credit gap for MSMEs providing climate technologies is approximately US  $4-5 billion across 
developing countries. It further explains that access to climate finance is a challenge for MSMEs because of a 
lack of awareness, lack of an enabling environment and the limited availability of financial products for greening 
activities and climate technology. 73 The Green Climate Fund  (GCF) recognizes the importance of including 
MSMEs for climate action and dedicated an MSME programme for US $200 million under th e Private Sector 
Facility. 74  GCF is supporting MSME projects on energy efficient approaches . Other initiatives include the 


--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
18 
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP), an NGO that invests funds in MSMEs and ventures 
that have strong potential to generate clean energy market growth. 75 The ResponsAbility Energy Access Fund is 
a revolving fund that provides working capital loans and longer-term debt to MSMEs producing and distributing 
modern energy products.76  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal .  
They can: 
▪ Pursue energy efficient certifications.77 
▪ Prioritize energy efficiency across all operations, including preserving light, heating, cooling.78 
▪ Invest in skills development so that qualified personnel can enable clean technology adoption.  
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. Tackling energy demand and energy 
sources have a potential business value in 2030 of over US $4.3 trillion in current prices. 80 There is a critical 
opportunity for renewable generators and equipment manufacturers. The Int ernational Renewable Energy 
Agency’s (IRENA) forecasts that, including hydropower, renewables share of power generation worldwide could 
increase to 45 percent by 2030, from around 23 percent in 2014. 81 Annual global investment in solar PV has 
already reached between US $100 billion and US $150 billion over the past five years. These trends present 
business opportunities for MSMEs. 82 As highlighted earlier, MSMEs are considered to be well placed in the  
distribution, installation, operations and maintenance of technology applications. Existing MSMEs and start-ups 
need to be supported to tap these opportunities in renewable energy which in turn will help achieve the goal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MSMEs deliver clean energy   
 
Simpa Networks. Simpa Networks provides a basic, portable solar home system in an off -grid utilities model to base of 
the pyramid customers in India.79 The system includes a low-cost meter connected to a cloud-based software that enables 
Simpa to track customer usage. Customers purchase the system with an initial down payment and then select how much 
energy credit to purchase. A portion of this payment covers the repayment cost of the system, while the rest goes to Simpa 
as profit and to cover operational costs. Once fully paid (typically within two to three years), the system unlocks 
permanently and continues to produce electricity for the customer for free. Simpa has installed over 15,000 solar home 
systems in India and is rapidly growing. 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
19 
Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all  
 
This goal has 12 targets. They cover a range of areas, including accelerating national 
economic growth, promotion of decent work, entrepreneurship, financial inclusion and 
global cooperation initiatives such as Aid for Trade, and a global strategy on youth 
employment.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 8? 
 
MSMEs contribute to GDP and economic growth. Among Organisation for 
Economic Co -operation and Development ( OECD) countries, MSMEs are the 
predominant form of enterprise and are major contributors to economic growth, 
generating between 50 percent and 60 percent of value added , on average.83 In 
emerging economies, MSMEs contribute up to 33 percent of GDP. When taking 
the contribution of informal businesses into account, MSMEs contribute to more 
than half of GDP in most countries irrespective of income levels.84 
MSMEs create jobs and have the potential for promoting decent work and 
entrepreneurship. MSMEs directly relate to SDG Target 8.3.85 As discussed under 
Goal 1, MSMEs contribute u p to 45 percent of total employment in emerging 
market economies.  In recent decades, employment generated by MSMEs has 
steadily increased at the global level. Over 2003 -16, across 132 countries, the 
number of total full -time employees in MSMEs has nearly doubled, from 79 
million to 156 million. 86 There is evidence to suggest that MSMEs contribute up 
to 90 percent of employment in thirteen Sub-Sahara African countries .87 The presence of MSMEs is typically 
concentrated in low -skilled and labo ur-intensive sectors , such as light manufacturing and the service sector.  
Nonetheless, jobs provided by MSMEs may have lower salaries and may be more insecure than those of larger 
enterprises. Because of informality, it is also difficult to ensure jobs provided by informal MSMEs are fully covered 
by a social protection network.  Therefore, MSMEs, while having a large share of employment, may not offer 
decent work opportunities as per ILO standards. Nonetheless, when better supported, they have the potential to 
promote decent work standards and decent job opportunities. The formalization and development of 
entrepreneurship as envisaged in this goal will require tackling various challenges MSMEs face, including 
creating more enabling policy and regulatory frameworks, increasing access to finance and market information, 
capacity building of MSMEs and increasing access to good infrastructure required for MSME operations. 88 
MSMEs finance is a target for Goal 8. Target 9.3 under Goal 9 identifies the importance of access to financial 
services.89 This Target points to the importance of providing sufficient financial resources to MSMEs, but it also 
includes the idea of strengthening the ability of MSMEs to access markets and expand their businesses through 
value chains, thus going beyond the domain of pure credit. The current credit gap is estimated at US $1.2 trillion 
for formal MS MEs, and US $6 trillion for informal MSMEs around the world. 90 About 70 percent of MSMEs in 
emerging economies countries lack access to credit. 91 With limited assets to use as collateral, formal and 
informal MSMEs are often perceived by commercial financing institutions as high-risk borrowers, which means 
higher costs in terms of fees and interest rates incurred. In recent years, many national governments and 
international organizations have tried to promote grant facilities, preferential rates and loan guara ntee 
programmes to bridge the gap. Well-managed schemes need to provide support and capacity building to ensure 
small business owners only take onboard acceptable amounts of risk and avoid bad debts. There continues to 


--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
20 
be great interest and new development s in venture capital, and other innovative and alternative financing for 
MSMEs.92 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal . They 
can offer apprenticeship opportunities 93 and foster an entrepre neurial culture and invest in/mentor young 
entrepreneurs. MSMEs could also instil a firm policy against unfair hiring and promote decent work standards.  
 
Diversifying MSME lending modalities and financial products 
 
Idepro94 in Bolivia is a cooperative that has a specific “Procadenas” lending product aimed at providing financing across 
the value chain of specific sectors and connecting various businesses along this chain with one another. Starting in 
various agro-forestry products, such as qu inoa, grapes, castañas and forestry products, Idepro has now also expanded 
its value chain financing to textiles, transport and construction. 
The Regional MSME Investment Fund for Sub -Saharan Africa 95 is a debt fund with a focus on financing microfinance 
institutions, local commercial banks and other financial institutions that serve MSMEs. The fund has disbursed US $150 
million to 42 lending institutions and to over 195,000 micro clients in 17 countries. 
The ICICI Bank MSME programme in India96 provides non-traditional financial services to MSMEs. To evaluate credit risk, 
the programme uses market segmentation and a “360 degree” approach. Credit scorecards (based on industries, 
linkages or market segments), MSME value analyses, relationship manager site visits and personal references are used 
to evaluate the credit worthiness of each MSME. ICICI has an MSME client base of almost 1 million enterprises. 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
21 
Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 
 
This goal has 9 targets, which primarily cover three areas, including provision of resilient 
infrastructure, industrialisation including development of small -scale industrial enterprises, 
and promotion of research and innovation.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 9? 
 
Small-scale industrial enterprises are directly relevant to the goal. SDG Target 9.3 focuses on increasing the role 
and capacity of small -scale industrial enterprises. 97 UNIDO reports that data on this target is limited from 
countries. Available data shows that the manufacturing value added of small -scale enterprises reveals high 
variability across developing countries. While Albania reported that 21 percent of manufacturing was produced 
by small -scale industries, the share was 
negligible in Ecuador at 0.4 percent. 98 
However the report notes that despite the 
small contribution to total industrial output, the 
role of small -scale enterprises in job creation, 
especially in developing countries, is 
significant in terms of their high ab sorption of 
labour from traditional sectors, such as 
agriculture or fishery. In OECD countries, 
MSMEs account for about 60  percent of jobs 
in the manufacturing sector and 75 percent in 
services, generating between 50  percent and 
60 percent of value added, on average.99  
MSME finance for small scale industrial 
enterprises will contribute to the goal. Although 
small-scale enterprises have a key role in 
industrial development in developing 
countries, one of the biggest challenges they 
face is access to financia l services. Financial access is crucial for small -scale industries to grow as it allows 
entrepreneurs to innovate, improve efficiency, expand to new markets and create new job opportunities.  The 
World Bank Enterprise Surveys for the period 2015 to 2017 rep orted that the highest shares of small -scale 
industries with a loan or line of credit in manufacturing are found in the Solomon Islands (64 percent), Nicaragua 
(59 percent) and Benin (52 percent).100 By contrast, some countries such as Laos (6.7 percent), Zimbabwe (5.7 
percent) and Egypt (4.3 percent) had very low shares. 101  
MSMEs promote innovation. While not all MSMEs are innovative, new and small firms are often the driving force 
behind the  innovations that are important for economic growth, since they can work outside of  dominant 
paradigms, exploit technological or commercial opportunities that have been neglected by more  established 
companies or enable the commercialisation of knowledge that would otherwis e remain uncommercialised .102 
For instance,  MSMEs account for about 20  percent of patents, which is one measure of innovation, in 
biotechnology-related fields in  Europe. 103 MSMEs also contribute to value creation by adopting innovation 
generated elsewhere, and adapting it to different contexts through incremental changes, and by distributing new 
or niche products. However, a key challenge for many MSMEs is to identify and connect to appropriate knowledge 
partners and networks at the local, national and global levels, and develop appropriate skills and management 


--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
22 
practices for integrating knowledge created by external partners with in -house prac tices and innovation 
processes.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal . They 
can establish standard s and promote regulations that ensure projects and initiatives are sustainably 
managed.104 They could also promote innovation by giving all stakeholders the opportunity to offer creative 
solutions to sustainability challenges.105 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The SDGs promote r esource-use 
efficiency and greater adoption of environment-friendly industrial processes. This transition of businesses and 
the economy will open up business opportunities; MSMEs are well -suited t o replicate and commercialise 
technology and add value in a range of areas, such as software, nanotechnology, biotechnology and clean 
technologies.106 Supporting MSMEs in the uptake of these new technologies and business fields will require 
capacity building , knowledge and technology transfer, financial resources and an enabling policy framework 
conducive for promoting the ease of doing business.  
 
MSMEs driving innovation, business examples from the UNDP SDG Accelerator 
Programme for MSMEs 
 
The following highlights some of the innovative SDG solutions developed with support of the UNDP programme, SDG 
Accelerator for MSMEs.107 
Palsgaard has developed a durable anti-fog coating for industrial food packaging, which keeps food fresh for a longer time, 
thus helping to reduce food waste. Through its global presence,  Palsgaard will market the product worldwide with a 
particular focus on the major packaging manufacturers in Asia and the United States. 
RGS Nordic  is developing a digital platform that enables  carriers to optimise the use of the many trucks visiting the 
company’s more than 35 receiving and handling facilities in Scandinavia every day. The solution will significantly reduce 
the number of empty trucks and, consequently, CO 2 and particle emissions. In the long term, the solution will be a best 
practice example of how sharing of transport data and cooperation between different industry actors can significantly 
reduce freight on European roads for the good of businesses, the environment and for people.   
E.ON is developing a model for replacing fossil fuels in local heat production with eco-friendly and cheaper heat pumps in 
housing blocks, townhouses and schools. Heat production in many Danish housing associations is still based on fossil 
fuels like oil and gas. Moreover, a large number of the plants are outdated and not maintained after many years of wear. 
This results in high energy losses and unnecessary operating costs. 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
23 
Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries 
 
This goal has 10 targets, which primarily focus on increasing incomes for low income earning 
groups, ending discrimination, promoting social, economic and political inclusion, promoting 
better wage and social protection policies, facilitating safe migration and reducing remittance 
fees, monitoring regulation of global financial markets, and increasing the voice of and 
assistance to least developed countries (LDCs).  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 10? 
 
MSMEs promote economic inclusion and have the potential to regenerate under-served geographic areas. Small 
businesses serve geographic locations, populations and markets that do not have enough scale to attract larger 
firms. Research has shown that  smaller businesses tend to spend more of the money they make from a local 
area w ithin that area , demonstrating their 
potential to regenerate economically 
disadvantaged localities. A research found that 
in the UK,  for every £1 a local authority spent 
with an MSME, 63p was re -spent in the local 
area compared to 40p for every £1 spent with a 
large business.108 
MSMEs provide incomes to low income and 
marginalized groups. MSMEs tend to be labour -
intensive; they employ many segments of the 
population, including low -skilled and less -
educated people, as well as rural and urban poor 
(see Goal 1). MSMEs also offer employment and 
entrepreneurship opportunities for young 
people, women and other disadvantaged 
groups, including migrants, ethnic minorities and the disabled. MSMEs are  therefore crucial in increasing 
incomes for the bottom 40 percent of the world’s population.  
Increasing productivity of MSMEs can help bridge wage inequality.  OECD work on productivity shows that, in 
some countries, the gap in productivity between MSMEs and large firms increased in the aftermath of the 2007-
08 global crisis.109 While for small and medium-sized enterprises there has been a reversal in this trend during 
the recovery, the larger gap has become persistent for micro -firms. This gap is also an important dr iver of the 
observed rise in inequality, including wage inequality, in many countries. 110 In many emerging and developing 
economies, the productivity gap between bigger firms and MSMEs and the resulting income gaps are especially 
large, due in particular to a disproportionate concentration of employment in micro and small firms, often 
informal ones. Investing in MSME development and increasing their competitiveness and productivity is key to 
reducing wage inequalities.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Adopt equal remuneration policies for men and women employees of the same competency. 
Ensure compliance with the minimum wage policies and exclude preferences based on gender, 
race, religion and other discriminatory grounds. 


--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
24 
▪ Provide social protection mechanisms to employees, including the payment for life, accident and 
unemployment insurance, contributing to social security of employees and ensuring paid leave in 
accordance with legal requirements. 
▪ Organize skills training and career coaching opportunities for employees from marginalized and 
vulnerable population groups.  
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. Small businesses 
can represent an effective tool to address societal needs through the market. Social enterprises bring innovative 
solutions to the problems of poverty and fill gaps in service delivery. In many countries, social enterprises are an 
increasing phenomenon, part icularly in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. For instance, in France, in 
2014, social enterprises contributed to 10 percent of the GDP. 111 In Belgium, over 2008 -14, employment in 
social enterprises increased by 12 percent and accounted, in 2015,  for 17 percent of total private 
employment.112 In the UK, in 2015, 41 percent of social enterprises had created jobs compared to 22 percent 
of MSMEs.113 Companies pursuing social impact as a part of their core business strategies are seeing increased 
access t o financing in a diversity of forms: philanthropic grants and impact investments, partial credit 
guarantees, and payment for performance. The socially-responsible investing industry exceeded US $6 trillion in 
the United States alone in 2014 and stands at U S $21.4 trillion globally. 114 MSMEs should be connected to 
these facilities to boost social enterprises and socially-responsible business operations.  
 
MSMEs accelerating inclusivity   
 
Dignity kitchen115 is a social enterprise that runs Singapore's first and only community food court. It is operated by people 
with disabilities and the socially disadvantaged. The business provides educational and employment opportunities in the 
food services industry to vu lnerable people of all walks of life, including those with physical, intellectual and mental 
disabilities, ex-offenders, at-risk youth, victims of domestic violence, cancer and stroke survivors. Dignity Kitchen offers 
bespoke cashier training to the hearing- and visually-impaired – the cashier machines have Braille markings and stickers 
attached to them and provides height-adjustable countertops to create a more enabling work environment for wheelchair-
bound ‘hawkerpreneurs’.  
MicroEnsure 116  offers affordable  insurance to previously unreachable groups via a model inspired by the popular 
computer game Angry Birds. The company saw an opportunity in providing health, life and disability insurance cover for 
low-income groups in Asia and Africa. These groups repres ent a US $40 billion market opportunity for insurance 
companies. But as they face extensive risks and can only afford tiny premiums, they tend to get overlooked. For instance, 
in Africa, less than three percent of the population has health insurance. Working with local telecoms companies and big 
insurance providers, MicroEnsure created an Angry Birds model: free, but with paid -for add-ons. It provides free basic 
insurance in exchange for improved consumer loyalty to local telecoms companies, with the option  for consumers to buy 
more extensive coverage once they understand the value of being insured. In effect, MicroEnsure extended its market by 
finding ways to bring affordable insurance to previously unreachable groups. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
25 
Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient 
and sustainable  
 
This goal has 10 targets. They focus on providing adequate housing, transport facilities, 
waste management, urban settlement planning, and reducing losses from disasters in 
urban areas. The targets promote sustainable and resilient urban standards, policies and 
planning.  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 11? 
 
MSMEs provide employment and economic growth in cities. MSMEs in professional services, digital and the 
creative industries (referred to as  ‘new work’) 117 
are becoming increasingly important – both in 
terms of employment and in terms of output for 
cities. Employment in the UK in these ‘new work’ 
industries increased at over four times the 
average between 2009 and 2013.118 Output from 
the digital sector increased more than seven -fold 
between 1990 and 2013 and by 286 percent in 
the professional services and 196 percent in the 
creative sector.119 These firms are overwhelmingly 
city-based. Nearly 60 percent of these MSMEs are 
based in cit ies and on average  in the UK , 40 
percent of MSMEs in cities are ‘new work’ MSMEs, 
compared to 34 percent in non -urban locations. 120 Fostering innovation and MSMEs is therefore key to the 
inclusive growth of cities and in creating employment for urban dwellers, including marginalized groups such as 
migrants from poor rural areas, young people and women.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal . They 
can jointly develop and/or participate in a sustainable community that brings together relevant stakeholders 
through a common and neutral platform to analyse, discuss, and act on urban functionality, resilience, and 
sustainable development;121 and support and utilize public transportation services.122 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs.  The report of the Business & 
Sustainable Development Commission estimates that addressing challenges in cities in line with the SDGs have 
a potential value in 2030 of US $3.7 trillion in current prices.123 They include business opportunities in a range 
of areas such as affordable housing, road safety equipment, office sharing, municipal water leakage, public 
transport in urban areas, electric a nd hybrid vehicles, vehicle fuel efficiency, durable and modular buildings, 
smart metering, energy efficiency in buildings, autonomous vehicles, timber buildings, cultural tourism and car 
sharing. The housing sector in cities alone is valued at US $650 -1,080 billion, while energy -efficient buildings 
are valued at US $555-770 billion, which includes retrofitting existing buildings with more efficient heating and 
cooling technology and switching to efficient lighting and other electrical appliances. 124 Electric and hybrid 
vehicles are valued at US $310-320 billion.125 Assuming an average life of 15 years, the total global passenger 
vehicle fleet will turn over completely by 2030, presenting an opportunity for a huge increase in sales of electric 
vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. MSMEs can help deliver many of these new products and services. 
Fostering start-ups and existing MSMEs to take up these opportunities is key to the implementation of the goal.  
   


--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
26 
MSMEs solving urban challenges    
 
Mobility. Bla Bla Car is a company which has scaled ride sharing between cities across Europe, allowing 1 million tons of 
CO2 emissions to be avoided in just two years. 126 Its website and mobile app connect drivers and passengers willing to 
travel together between cities and share the cost of the journey. The platform has 70 million users in 2019 and is available 
in 22 countries. Other similar start -ups are: Bynd, which off ers commuting car sharing in traffic -bound Sao Paolo, and 
Flattire, a bike-fixing platform from bike-friendly Amsterdam.127 
Housing. ¡Échale! a tu Casa is a social enterprise based in Mexico that co -designs homes with low income families and 
sets up housing committees.128 It sees building communities as a part of the housing solution. It also buys over 60 percent 
of building materials locally and provides employment to local construction workers. Under iÉchale!’s assisted self-building 
programme, participants receive the materials and technical training necessary to build a small house in a month, with 
supervision from a certified architect. The resulting homes, made from ¡Échale!’s patented compressed earth blocks, are 
designed for minimal energy and water use,  making them eco -friendly as well as cheap to run. Green features include 
solar water heaters, wood saving stoves and systems to harvest rainwater. ¡Échale! is exporting its technology to Belize, 
Egypt, Haiti, Nicaragua and the UAE, and is developing a soc ial franchise model to allow others to replicate its success. 
Already, 30,000 houses have been built and over 150,000 homes improved in Mexico alone using its model. PopUp Immo 
is a start up in Hong Kong that offers a marketplace dedicated to short-term commercial real estate rental.129 The company 
aims at making rentals of short-term commercial spaces as easy as making bookings on Airbnb. The platform provides a 
flexible and global platform for brands looking for spaces to renew their customers’ experiences. Property owners reduce 
their vacancy rates and increase their rental yields. 
Waste management. Daily Dump is dedicated to empowering households, individuals and urban communities across India 
to convert their organic waste to high quality compost.130 Indian cities generate 120,000 tonnes of waste a day and over 
50 percent is wet/organic waste. Municipalities face huge challenges in handling this waste. Daily Dump started in 2006 
with a core team of 3 members and 2 support members and potters who made prototy pes. They designed a range of 
composting solutions, which are operated conveniently and hygienically at household level and are increasingly being used 
by offices. It has prevented 4400 kg of waste from reaching land dumps. Once the organic waste productio n reaches a 
certain volume, they are transported to villages to support organic farming.  
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
27 
Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
 
This goal has 11 targets. It includes targets to substantially reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction and recycling by 2030, promotes sustainable management of 
natural resources, sustainable lifestyles and consumption behaviours, sustainable business 
practices and sustainability reporting for businesses. The goal calls for int egrating 
sustainability to public procurement and promotes international cooperation on research 
and development that facilitate sustainable consumption and production.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 12? 
 
MSMEs as a group have significant cumulative social and environmental impacts. MSMEs form the backbone of 
national economies and the global supply chains of large companies. Individually, MSMEs have relatively small 
environmental and social impacts, but as a group, the impacts are much larger. MSMEs comprise a major share 
of total private sector entities in both 
developed and developing countries ; in  
developing countries such as Peru, 98 percent 
of private enterprises are MSMEs.131 Reducing 
the environmental impact of MSMEs is core to 
the successful performance of this goal. This is 
particularly urgent for MSMEs in the 
manufacturing sector, which accounts for a 
large part of the world’s consumption of 
resources, air and water po llution and 
generation of waste. 132  In India, there is a 
significant number of MSMEs that belong to 
categories recognized as highly polluting 
industries: chemical and allied industries, 
leather industries, textile processing, drugs 
and pharmaceuticals, agro-chemicals and food 
processing industries.133 MSMEs are unable to comply with environmental standards due to factors such as lack 
of information, lack of access to capital, lack of adaptation of environmental regulations to the social, economic 
and technical reality of local businesses and effective possibilities of cont rol bodies, difficulty in recruiting 
qualified personnel, less awareness about environmental issues, and less environmental pressures from 
stakeholders.134 Building capacity of MSMEs in these areas is therefore key to the achievement of the goal .  
SDG Target  12.7 under this goal promotes public procurement practices that are sustainable . MSMEs are a 
major player in public procurement in many countries - 57 percent of the suppliers to public procurement in 
Brazil are MSMEs, up to 98 percent in Ecuador, and in China up to 76.2 percent of the government procurement 
contracts is granted to MSMEs. 135 Greening public procurement can pose challenges for MSME participation in 
public procurement. Strengthening policies and capacity -building support for MSMEs can help add ress the 
challenges MSMEs face to integrate in green public procurement. 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt sustainable business practices. In general, MSMEs are more  flexible than 
large companies, making them  more likely to adopt sustainable business pract ices. MSMEs have to be 
incentivized to adopt sustainable business practices and to report which can be beneficial for them. MSMEs 
need to be informed that the transition can help businesses to become more competitive, cut costs and optimize 
operations. A 2014 McKinsey study found that 44 percent of sustainable business leaders cite growth and new 
business opportunities as reasons for tackling sustainability challenges. 136 In a review of 200 studies on 
sustainability and corporate performance, Oxford University and Arabesque Partners concluded that 90 percent 
of studies in this area found that high environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards reduced 
companies’ cost of capital, and that 80 percent show a positive correlation between stock price performa nce 


--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
28 
and good sustainability practices. 137  Business development support programmes provided by government 
departments and international organizations need to share additional good practices with MSME entrepreneurs 
on demonstrating sustainability as promising  business solutions conducive for enhancing efficiency, innovation 
and positive recognition among stakeholders.  
MSMEs can contribute to sustainability reporting. Currently, a small percentage of MSMEs carry out sustainability 
reporting. In 2015, MSMEs accounted for just 10 percent of the total number of sustainability reports captured 
in the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability Disclosure Database, with 90  percent coming from large 
and multinational organizations. 138 Yet, sustainability reporting  is vital for micro, small, medium  and large 
enterprises alike.139 MSMEs need to be motivated to start reporting and need to be made aware of the benefits 
of reporting. According to Stichting GRI, benefits include increased transparency to stakeholders and b etter risk 
management, while driving business development and the optimization of business processes.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal .  
They can: 
▪ Reduce manufacturing impacts by substituting raw materials in products with post-consumer 
materials through recycling and upcycling.140 
▪ Significantly reduce waste and ensure that any unavoidable waste is utilized to the fullest degree 
(e.g. organic waste as fuel or fertilizer).141 
▪ Conduct a simple audit to see where money is being spent, what waste it relates to and what 
MSME entrepreneurs could do to prevent negative environmental impacts as the first step to 
develop an impact reduction plan.142 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will  help achieve the SDGs. Promotion of sustainable practice 
will offer new or competitive business opportunities for MSMEs in a range of areas : public procurement , 
consumer information (such as eco-labelling, certification), sustainable tourism, lifestyle education, retrofitting 
buildings and construction, and food systems. A potential area is the circular model and approaches to design, 
manufacturing and reuse which keep resources in play for as long as possible and recover and reuse spent 
materials and prod ucts. The  report of the Business & Sustainable Development Commission estimates that 
circular models in the automotive industry  have a potential value in 2030 of  US $475-810 billion in current 
prices and circular models of appliances and machinery have a p otential value in 2030 of US $305 -525 
billion.143 MSMEs can play a critical role in the logistics of circular businesses and recycling processes. Start-ups 
and existing MSMEs need to be equipped with skills, matched with investors and markets to exploit thes e 
opportunities, which in turn will contribute to the progress of this goal.  
MSMEs and green public procurement    
One of the challenges for MSMEs to participate in green public procurement is the need for use of ecolabels and 
certifications, which incurs costs, resources and expertise that MSMEs are not able to cover. The Brazilian Development 
Bank (BNDES) offers a cr edit card to MSMEs (through several commercial banks), with up to 48 months to pay and 
preferential interest rates, which can be used to pay for raw materials and other goods, as well as for services, such as 
metrology, standardization and conformity assessment services (calibration, laboratory tests, certifications), such as ISO 
certification provided by entities accredited by the national accreditation body. This is complemented by SEBRAE, a 
Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service. This organiz ation has implemented several programmes to foster 
entrepreneurship. SEBRAE subsidizes 50 percent of the value of the service approved for the MSMEs (which is responsible 
to pay the rest), or 60 percent in the case of Individual Micro-entrepreneurs or Rural Producers. The MSME’s counterpart 
can be paid using the BNDES card described before. The services that can be accessed through SEBRAE’s Sebraetec 
include product design, ISO certification, OHSA certifications, and certification of organic products, among other services. 
Although the direct impact of this initiative is unknown, evidence shows that MSMEs have sustainable business practices 
in Brazil. In 2014, MSMEs accounted for 66.8 percent of the reported sustainable purchases in Brazil and out of 3,563 
suppliers that were registered for sustainable purchases, 89 percent were MSMEs. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
29 
Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its 
impacts  
 
This goal has five targets. They promote adaptation against impacts of climate change, 
strengthening planning to integrate climate risks at various levels, increasing awareness of 
stakeholders on climate risks and impacts, and building global cooperation to support 
climate action and build capacity of countries to address climate issues.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 13? 
 
MSMEs have the potential to make vulnerable populations and households climate resilient. Given that MSMEs 
create employment and entrepreneurship for a large proportion of the population in developing countries, 
MSMEs can enhance capacities of households through stable and diversified incomes to help withstand impacts 
of climate-induced shocks and stressors.   
MSMEs are heavy energy users and have the potential to contribute to mitigation.  
As highlighted under Goal 7, many MSMEs operate in energy-intensive sectors and 
have the potential to contribute to mitigation. An estimate of climate impact of 
MSMEs shows that the sectors with the largest volumes of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions were found in three sectors for whi ch data were available - agriculture, 
hunting, forestry and fishing ; manufacturing and e lectricity; gas and water 
supply. 144 The number of MSMEs active in these sectors were 88 million, 49 
million and 1 million, respectively. If informal enterprises were added, the numbers 
were even higher. 145 This demonstrates the scale of MSMEs and the role MSMEs 
can play in GHG mitigation. Mitigation activities of MSMEs include reducing energy 
use by supporting a switch to energy efficient approaches for lighting, buildings,  
and refrigeration; reducing emissions by supporting a switch to renewable energy 
sources; or improving water conservation by supporting behavioural change 
towards pollution and water use.146 
MSMEs can contribute to adaptation of economic activities/sectors.  MSME-dominant sectors such as 
agriculture, manufacturing and services are vulnerable to climate-induced events such as floods, droughts, and 
sea level rise. A discussion paper on metalworking enterprises in India shows direct impacts on their buildings, 
manufacturing processes and infrastructure from higher frequency of hot days or heavy rainfall and indirect 
impacts on their supply chains and markets, including rising energy and material prices or change of demand in 
response to climate change effects. 147 Based on a climate change sensitivity assessment, an analysis shows 
that climate change plays a catalytic role speeding up and intensifying already existing challenges for MSMEs in 
India, including resource strain and infrastructural problems. MSMEs’ vulner ability to climate change is 
compounded by the fact that many operate outside the formal sector. These businesses will have limited access 
to public social safety nets, formal finance channels, and post-disaster insurance, making it difficult for them to 
recover from the impact of  extreme weather events.  Addressing capacities of MSMEs is key to strengthening 
adaptive capacity of key economic sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, food processing, tourism, etc.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Conduct a simple energy audit and make changes like adoption to energy-efficient LED lighting.148 
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and s upply chain.149 
▪ Expand sustainable forest management through responsible sourcing practices .150 


--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
30 
▪ Create a Green Travel Policy to encourage staff to use more sustainable forms of travel and 
improve low-carbon lorry fleet planning along their supply chains.151  
▪ Directly engage with community members to promote adaptive practices. 152  
  
MSMEs respond to emerging climate risks and climate-induced events      
 
MSMEs can contribute to climate change adaptation by providing climate -resilient products and services for vu lnerable 
communities. One example documented by WRI153 and others is: 
Ignitia.154 The yields of small-scale farmers in sub-Saharan Africa are the lowest in the world, contributing to the challenge 
of food insecurity. It is estimated that between 20 percent and 80 percent of annual yields are lost due to climate 
uncertainties. Ignitia, a high-tech social enterprise, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA)155 with a commitment to 
deliver reliable, targeted, low-cost tropical weather forecasts via text messages to 1.2 million small-scale farmers in West 
Africa by the end of 2017. Small -scale farmers in the tropics have limited access to reliable weather forecasts, which 
seriously constrains their ability to plan farming activities. To fill this gap, Ignitia created a forecasting model that creates 
reliable, GPS -specific weather forecasts . Launched in Ghana in 2014, iska™ has proven to be 84 percent accurate 
compared with global forecasts, such as those found on the BBC or CNN, which only achieve 39 percent accuracy in West 
Africa. With iska™, smallholder farmers receive the vital information they need to mitigate risk and create resilience. The 
farmers are charged the equivalent of US $0.04 per day for the service; they can pay in micro -instalments from pre-paid 
mobile credit. Over the entire season, this typically adds up to less than 2 percent of a farmer’s total expenditure on inputs.  
 
 
  

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
31 
Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 
resources for sustainable development 
 
This goal has ten targets. They encourage reduction in marine pollution, sustainable 
management of marine and coastal ecosystems, regulation of overfishing, protection of 
marine ecosystems and oceans, promotion of research to address ocean acidification, 
promotion of benefi ts of marine resources to small island developing state s, promotion of 
international cooperation, research and capacity building on marine technology, and in 
promotion of conservation.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 14? 
 
Small-scale fishery and marine -based enterprises are directly relevant to the goal . Target 14.b “provide access 
for small -scale artisanal fishers to marine resources and 
markets”. The small -scale, artisanal fishery sector 
encompasses pre-harvest, harvest and post -harvest, and 
employs both men and women in almost equal measure s, 
with a high female participation in fish processing and small-
scale fish trading operations. 156 Some 90 to 95 percent of 
the catch produced by small -scale landings is used for the 
consumption of local communities and i n some developing 
countries, including small island deve loping states ( SIDS), 
small-scale fisheries provide more than 60 percent of protein 
intake. 157  If small -scale actors are capacitated with 
monitoring of fishery management systems and marine 
resource governance, it could help to relieve environmental 
pressures stemming from overfishing .158  
Building MSME capabilities to promote sustainability of value chains.  Sustainable practices , such as eco-
labelling, and traceability systems for wild  catch will help MSMEs become more competitive, considering the 
increased demands of consumers for fair trade, organic a nd BioTrade products .159 There has already been 
evidence showing seafood production certified under global sustainability initiatives grew 40 -fold from 2003 to 
2015 and now represents more than 14 percent of global production. 160 As indicated under Goal 12, MSMEs 
face challenges in adopting certifications and eco -labelling due to the resources and costs involved. Technical 
assistance and financing to cover costs of certification can help small-scale marine-based enterprises to become 
more competitive for their business operations, contributing to the progress of this goal.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Track the product life cycle to understand how they are disposed, and which products could likely 
find their way into marine environments.161 
▪ Record and disclose information on the chemical makeup and material usage of p roducts, 
packaging, and processing systems to facilitate closing the loop. 
▪ Prevent waste mismanagement or littering that could pollute the marine environment.  
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and supply chain. 162 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The OECD projects 
a marked acceleration in economic activity in the ocean by 2030, based on the rapidly expanding ocean 
industries combined with expectations of moderate growth in already large industries like maritime and coastal 
tourism, offshore oil and gas, shipbuilding and maritime equipment. 163 Conservatively, ocean-based industries’ 


--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
32 
gross value added could double in size by 2030, reaching around US  $3 trillion. Some ocean industries’ value 
added is set to grow even faster than the world economy.164 These include marine aquaculture, capture fisheries, 
fish processing, offshore wind, and port activities. Emerging trends include use of marine living resources such 
as algae for pharmaceuticals and chemicals, trade of non -edible seafood products for use in cosmetics, and 
marine renewable energy sources —including wave and tidal and ocean thermal energy conversion, deep sea 
exploration for minerals and resources, marine bio technology. It is important to identify the value of MSMEs in 
these emerging industries and to build the capacity of existing small entrepreneu rs and foster start-ups to 
maximize the role of small-scale businesses in the marine sector.  
 
A small firm develops technology for reducing marine pollution        
 
ECOncrete®165 is a young science -based company that provides bio -enhancing concrete solutions that enhance marine 
life and help reduce the ecological footprint of coastal and marine development projects, protecting and rejuvenating 
coastlines, while sustaining and enhancing marine biodiversity. The bio-enhanced concrete has a unique combination of 
innovative admix, rough surface textures, and 3D designs that encourage and support colonization of rich and diverse 
marine plants and animals, enhancing biodiversity rather t han reducing it. Not only is bio -enhanced concrete strong 
enough to withstand harsh marine environments, the enhanced marine growth on ECOncrete® actually increases the 
strength and durability of the structure in a cost -effective, low-carbon solution, redu cing the carbon footprint of ports, 
marinas and other coastal development projects, while making them more resilient and adaptive to climate change. 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
33 
Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt 
and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 
  
This goal has 12 targets. They focus on sustainable management of inland freshwater 
ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, 
address deforestation, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, ensure 
conservation of mountain ecosystems including their biodiversity, and promote equitable 
sharing of the benefits arising from th e utilization of genetic resources. The targets call for 
an end to poaching and trafficking of protected species, promote protection against invasive 
species, promote ecosystem-based planning and global cooperation on conservation, and promote land -based 
ecosystems. 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 15? 
 
Agribusinesses and smallholder farmers have a critical role to play in conserving land-based ecosystems. Today’s 
dominant industrial food system is rapidly depleting and degrading the world’s soil, water and biod iversity. 
Environmental damages caused by industrial and agriculture activities cost the world US $3 trillion each year , 
according to the United Nations . Small -scale food producers make up 90 percent of farmers worldwide. 166 
Adoption of agro-ecological methods through capacity building of small -scale producers can foster biodiversity, 
natural soil fertility, water conservation and biological control of insects and shift food production to a sustainable 
path.167 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Measure, manage, and mitigate impacts on ecosystems and natural resources. 168 
▪ Scale up best practices for land-use planning and management.169 
▪ Commit to and implement responsible sourcing practices beyond compliance, applying 
environmental and social safeguards for all raw materials and commodities.  
New business solutions and opportunities for MSMEs. The 
Business & Sustainable Development Commission estimates 
forest ecosystem services have a potential value of US $140-365 
billion a year by 2030. Deforestation and forest degradation 
account for 17 percent of global emissions  -more than 
transport. 170  Just f our commodities, beef, soy, palm oil and 
paper/pulp, are responsible for driving half of all deforestation.171 
It is expected that  a carbon pr ice of US $50 per tonne by 2030 
will open up major new opportunities in sustainable forest 
services, such as climate change mitigation, watershed services 
and biodiversity conservation, if mechani sms to pay for them develop too.  One hundred and fourteen 
governments have made commitments to ecological restoration as part of their overall plans to tackle a changing 
climate, pledging to restore 16 2 million hectares of land . 172  More and more enterprises are seeing the 
commercial potential in sectors related to ecological restoration, including those whose main value proposition 
is linked to forest and landscape restoration. This may be a direct link, enterprises that plant trees, for example, 
or an indirect one, such as companies that offer technology or consulting services for restoration. A restoration 
enterprise can also include companies whose revenues are not directly linked to restoration, but whose 
customers are drawn to them because they channel th eir profits toward restoration. Existing MSMEs and start-


--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
34 
ups need to be supported with capacity building to tap the new business opportunities stemming from 
contributing to the SDGs.  
 
Small businesses as restoration enterprises 
 
Better Globe Forestry173 is a Kenyan company that works with smallholder farmers to plant Melia volkensii trees, a native 
species known for its resilience to drought. Providing farmers with a range of resources to plant the trees on their lands, 
from seedlings and water supplies to training and microfinance, Better Globe intends to purchase the trees from farmers 
once they are mature, harvesting them and exporting them as high -quality timber. By establishing the trees on semi -arid 
lands with more than a million planted to  date, the company helps retain water and improve soil quality, transforming 
dusty farmlands into oases of grass and vegetation. 
Greenprint Partners,174 (formerly known as Fresh Coast Capital), exemplifies the potential of restoration companies to 
deliver financial, environmental and social returns. As a project developer, Greenprint partners with cities throughout the 
U.S. Midwest to restore and revitalize underserved urban communities through the transformative power of nature. By 
paying Greenprint to install large-scale green infrastructure such as native plants and trees, cities can naturally manage 
stormwater runoff while improving soil and air quality. These projects can save cities millions in infrastructure costs while 
creating restoration jobs and improving property values, delivering triple-win scenarios for the company, the city and the 
environment. 
Ecosia175 is an online search engine that displays ads next to its search results. Ecosia earns revenue every time a user 
clicks on one of the ads. At leas t 80 percent of its profits are invested into tree -planting programmes in Burkina Faso, 
Madagascar, Peru, Indonesia and Tanzania. While Ecosia’s business model does not directly benefit from trees, its 
customer value proposition is intimately linked to res toring degraded land. Its platform enables users to see how many 
trees have been planted based on individual online activity. With 9 million trees planted to date, Ecosia proves that 
business models that indirectly promote restoration can be effective at creating large-scale impact. 
 
  

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
35 
Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels  
 
This goal has 12 targets. The goal focuses on reducing all forms of violence, ending 
exploitation, trafficking and violence against and torture of children. The targets promote rule 
of law, calls for reducing illicit financial and arms flows, reducing corruption, promoting 
transparency of institutions, promoting participatory decision making and access to 
information, ensuring legal identity through birth registration, promoting international 
cooperation, and non-discriminatory laws and policies.  
 
Can MSMEs help to achieve Goal 16? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for promoting good governance principles. Adopting ethical business practices and 
standards and promoting integration of these standards within value chains of MSMEs can be beneficial for their 
growth and profitability. For example, clean business without having to make illegal payments can lower the cost 
of production or operation. Maintaining strong business ethics and integrity can help strengthen customer 
relationships, improve reputation and win more business. Businesses no longe r view adoption of good 
governance standards as compliance but also internalize these approaches as part of business risk 
management strategies. 176 MSMEs which often take up a large share of the business community have the 
potential for adopting governance p rinciples if they are provided with the necessary support and resources. 
Support should also extend to informal enterprises to become formalized.  
MSMEs have a role in conflict/violence prevention. MSMEs provide incomes to poor families, women and youth 
through employment and entrepreneurship  opportunities. Supporting women and youth -led enterprises is 
therefore considered an effective strategy for violence prevention as incomes from entrepreneurship can 
motivate yo ung people not to take up arms or to participate in crime. Supporting youth and women -led 
businesses, particularly those who are marginalized, can contribute to a more inclusive society which in turn 
promotes peace. The SDG Fund demonstrates several such initiatives that support farmer’s groups in Colombia 
following the long-term conflict, support women’s cooperatives in the Occupied Territory of Palestine and target 
unemployed ex -combatants with youth entrepreneurship development in Sierra Leone. 177  These MSME 
promotion strategies were mainl y targeted to prevent violence and promote peace as part of post -conflict 
recovery.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.   
They can: 
▪ Comply with laws and seek to meet international standards; requiring and supporting business 
partners to do the same.178  
▪ Conduct risks assessment to examine and monitor external patterns that could affect business 
operations. 
▪ Support organization or participation of employees to training programmes on prevent ion of 
violence; incorporate violence prevention measures in enterprise management regulations.  


--- PAGE 36 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
36 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs resulting from the 2030 Agenda and SDGs. Supply 
chain policies and programmes offer key 
opportunities for companies to scale up their 
sustainability practices, thus contributing to the 
advancement of the SDGs.179 Traceability is the 
ability to identify and trace the history, 
distribution, location and application of 
products, parts and materials, to ensure  the 
reliability of sustainability claims, in the areas of 
human rights, labour (including health and 
safety), the environment and anti-corruption.180 
Adopting traceability schemes and initiatives 
can lead to an increase in market base and 
appeal, in many cases allowing MSMEs to offset 
costs involved in adopting these schemes by 
charging premium prices for their products and 
services of higher quality.  
 
Business examples and initiatives that promote MSME governance         
Dipantara and the traceability scheme.181 Global traceability organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), 
the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and UTZ Certified, engage with stakeholders along the entire value chain. This 
allows for the development of a credible and robust chain of custody standards and certification for products from the raw 
material to the final use phase. Dipantara, a small community wood trading initiative in the province of Java, Indonesia, 
has developed a group business model aimed at helping smallholder farmers and farmers’ groups in the region sell their 
wood to the international market. Maisons du Monde, a UN Global Compact participant signatory, and The Forest Trust 
(TFT) homeware retail member has supported the Dipantara farmers’ initiative by placing orders for its stores. Dipantara, 
as a non -profit business entity, partners with 96 farmers’ groups across 22 villages totaling 7,966 farmers that have 
registered with the business. By 2012, it had helped 20 of these farmer groups achieve Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certification. The initiative’s efforts help buyers identify the source of wood and trace it back to the tree stump, while at  
the same time increasing revenues for farmers with smallholdings. 
Initiatives promoting MSME governance  
The Basel Institute182 provides anti-corruption collective action, compliance and bribery prevention guidance services to 
MSMEs through the new Business Integrity Consultancy Service, part of the UK government’s Business Integrity Initiative. 
MSMEs that meet the eligibility criteria can submit an application to receive subsidized anti-corruption guidance services 
in three areas – (i) anti-corruption compliance, (ii) corruption and bribery prevention and (iii) anti -corruption Collective 
Action. Depending on their size, companies that receive services will be asked to pay only 20 or 40 percent of the total 
cost of the service.  
The Integrity App183 is an innovative tool to support MSMEs in sustainability compliance.  It was launched by the Allia nce 
for Integrity at the beginning of 2017 and provides a one-stop-shop online platform where companies can track their levels 
of compliance based on a questionnaire developed in line with international standards and receive an immediate status 
report and recommendations on how to improve. Further, the platform is a reliable source of information, provides tools, 
workshops, and webinars and even offers consultations and implementation support. 


--- PAGE 37 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
37 
Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the 
global partnership for sustainable development  
 
This goal has 19 targets. It promotes financing of development through domestic resource 
mobilisation, overseas development assistance (ODA), trade and investment promotion and calls 
for addressing debt sustainability, etc. The goal promotes international cooperation on access 
to science, technology and innovation, capacity building, improving policy and institutional 
coherence, data and monitoring of SDGs and encourages multi-sector partnerships.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 17? 
 
MSMEs account for a large share of added value in international trade when indirect linkages are taken into 
account. Overall, MSMEs tend to be under -represented in international trade. Across OECD and non -OECD 
Members, few MSMEs export directly and for those that do, exports typically represent a lower share of trade 
turnover (relati ve to larger firms). 184 However, when considering MSMEs’ indirect contribution to exports, as 
suppliers to larger domestic firms or multinational companies that export, MSMEs in OECD countries can 
represent more than half of total exports  in value added terms .185 The quality and responsiveness of MSMEs 
that supply goods and services to multinational companies that export play a key role in the competitiveness of 
entire supply chains, at both local and global levels. Harnessing this interdependency between MSMEs and larger 
businesses and coordination between the entities can therefore contribute to promotion of trade and competitive 
supply chains.  
MSMEs are a source of partnership to implement SDGs.  Small businesses ad dress societal needs through  
market solutions as demonstrated by social enterprises (see Goal 10). MSMEs also play a role in public -private 
partnerships (PPP) to provide services to address various developmental challenges. They can participate in 
dialogues with governments and communities to find solutions to development problems as they work cl osely 
with communities. They can contribute to society through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices.  
MSMEs are a source of data for SDG monitoring and reporting.  The former Secretary-General of the United 
Nations Ban Ki-moon called for a ‘data revolution’ for the SDGs. This refers to the “integration of new data with 
traditional data to produce high-quality information that is more detailed, timely and relevant for many purposes 
and users, especially to foster and monitor sustainable development”, which encourages governments to engage 
with private-sector actors who generate large amounts of data through their work. 186 MSMEs which are present 
in a range of value chains and employ a large share of the population have potentials for gen erating data that 
can assist in monitoring the SDGs.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal. They 
can take a collaborative initiative and seek  a local charity that the organisation is clos e to and have a 
conversation on how the business can support their work.187 They could also partake in SDG-related partnerships 
like the UN's Make the Global Goals Local campaign, the SDG reporting initiative and locally-based sustainability 
initiatives.188 


--- PAGE 38 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
38 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs.  An integrated 
global economy as envisaged in this goal is associated with the 
rise of global value chains (GVCs) . GVCs  and the digital 
transformation offer new opportunities for MSMEs to integrate 
into the global economy. Greater flexibility and the capacity to 
customize and differentiate products can give MSMEs a 
competitive advantage in global markets, as they are able to 
respond rapidly to changing market conditions and to test with 
shorter product life cycles. Some niche international markets 
are dominated by MSMEs, and innovative small enterprises 
are often key partners of larger multinationals in developing 
new products or serving new markets. For example, in 
Germany, small - and mid -size companies hold between 70  
percent and 90  percent of global market share in some 
specialized manufacturing segments and account for the bulk of  the German international trade surplus. 189 
However, MSME constraints in internationalising include access to information, skills, technology, finance, trade 
facilitation, and connectivity. Evidence shows that MSMEs are lagging behind in adopting digital technologies.190 
While in most countries, the divide is narrow for simple co nnectivity and web presence, the gap broadens when 
considering participation in e -commerce and, especially, more sophisticated applications. In many countries, a 
large adoption gap is also observed for cloud computing , for instance  the renting of computer power from an 
external provider, which can allow smaller firms to use big data, while overcoming some of the barriers 
associated with the high fixed costs of ICT investmen t.191 MSMEs are also disproportionately affected by trade 
facilitation/administrative costs, business taxes and compliance in export destinations compared to larger firms. 
Limited access to credit faced by MSMEs and start -ups further exacerbate the disadvantages of MSMEs to 
integrate in GVCs.192  Responding to these challenges, MSMEs will help achieve the broader vision envisaged in 
international cooperation on trade and investment under this goal.  
Business examples supporting the delivery of  SDG 17 
 
Bluetown.193 This Danish company founded in 2012 with 60 employees has developed a wi -fi solution that runs entirely 
on solar energy. In addition to internet access, wi -fi hotspots allow access to a local cloud so local authorities, private 
companies, and NGOs can post free learning material to the communities. The provision of internet promotes e-health, e-
commerce and e -learning in regions where Bluetown has projects. Bluetown was a participant of the UNDP SDG 
Accelerator programme and was the joint winner of the USA ID WomenConnect Challenge, which provides finance for 
projects that break down the digital gender divide. 
Ushahidi.194 The ‘data revolution’ required for SDGs opens opportunities for MSMEs in data analytics. One such example 
is the social enterprise Ushahidi  which applies data collection as part of its business model.  Ushahidi develops and 
supports information technology tools that promote transparency and accountability , employing data pulled from user -
submitted reports. It was originally established as a K enya-based website that tracked information about the scope and 
locations of post-election violence in 2007 and 2008. Since then, it has developed a technical platform for collating and 
mapping many types of information submitted by the public. This tool has been used to coordinate information-sharing for 
disaster response and crisis management in Haiti and Sao Paulo, among other locations. The UN’s Office for the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has worked with Ushahidi to support crisis mapping in con flict, including during the 
2011 Libyan crisis. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 39 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
39 
Bibliography 
 
1 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017) Better Business Better World: The Report of the 
Business & Sustainable Development Commission. 
2 Khrystyna Kushnir, Melina Laura Mirmulstein, and Rita Ramalho (2010) Micro, Small, and Medium 
Enterprises around the World: How Many Are There, and What Affects the Count? IFC, the World Bank Group. 
3 https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/smefinance 
4 United Nations The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2018. United Nations. New York.  
5 Kok, J et. al. (2013) Is Small Still Beautiful? Literature Review of Recent Empirical Evidence on the 
Contribution of SMEs to Employment Creation International Labour Organisation (ILO) and Deutsche 
Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ).  
6 Lessidrenska, T (2019) SMEs and SDGs: challenges and opportunities OECD Development Matters Blog.  
7 Hammond, A et. al. (2007) The Next 4 Billion Market Size and Business Strategy at the Base of the Pyramid. 
World Resources Institute (WRI) and the International Finance Corporation, World Bank Group.  
8 Ibid. 
9  International Labour Organization (2018) Women and Men in the Informal Economy: A statistical Picture 
Third edition ILO.  
10 Edwards, C (2018) UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
11 Ibid. 
12 Hammond, A. et. al. (2007) The Next 4 Billion Market Size and Business Strategy at the Base of the Pyramid . 
World Resources Institute (WRI) and the International Finance Corporation, World Bank Group.  
13 Urs Heierli and SDC, Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (2019) Poverty Alleviation as a 
Business: The Art of What Works, Berne. 
14 Target 2.3 - “By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, in 
particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and 
equal access to land, other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and 
opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment.” 
15 Food and Agricultural Organization. Performance tracking of SDG 2. 
16 Ibid. 
17 Ibid. 
18 Edwards, C (2018) UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses. 
19 Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) 2018. Transforming Food and Agriculture to Achieve the SDGs – 
20 Interconnected Actions to Guide Decision-Makers. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome. 
20 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017) Better Business Better World. 
21 Ibid. 
22 Agri-Food Chain Coalition (2018) How Innovation Contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals. 
23 Blue Orchard Academy (2017) SMEs and SDGs: Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises to Achieve the 
Sustainable Development Goals – Insights from a Blue Orchard Survey. 
24 Private Sector & Development (PS&D) (2018). Does the Private Sector Help Improve Healthcare Systems in 
Developing Countries? Private Sector & Development (PS&D) Magazine. Agence Française de Développement. 
25 Ibid.  
26 Ibid.   
27 Edwards, C (2018) UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
28 Karlstrom, C (2018). What Impact can SMEs Have on the Sustainable Development Goals? Royal Society for 
the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA). 
29 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
30 World Health Organization (2017). Online Q&A: Sustainable Development Goals Health Price Tag. 
31 Leopoldie, M. (2017). 12 African Startups Among the Best in Emerging and Developing Countries.  
 

--- PAGE 40 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
40 
 
32 https://heliumhealth.com/about.html 
33 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World. 
34 https://kasha.rw/about-us 
36 Blue Orchard Academy (2017). SMEs and SDGs: Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises to Achieve the 
Sustainable Development Goals – Insights from a Blue Orchard Survey.  
37 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
37 Ibid.  
38 Global Business Coalition for Education (undated) Opportunities for Impact: The Business Case for Early 
Childhood Development.  
39 Miranda, A. (2015). The Journey of a Girl: Opportunities for Business Investment in Girls’ Education - A 
Working Paper, Global Business Coalition for Education.  
40 United Nations Development Programme and Deloitte (2016). Unchartered Waters: Blending Value and 
Values for Social Impact through the SDGs. 
41 Global Business Coalition for Education (undated).  Opportunities for Impact: The Business Case for Early 
Childhood Development. 
42 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
43 International Finance Corporation (2014). Women Owned SMEs: A Business Opportunity for Financial 
Institutions. A Market and Credit Gap Assessment and IFC’s Portfolio Gender Baseline . International Finance 
Corporation, the World Bank Group. 
44 Ibid. 
45 International Center for Research on Women (ICRW) (2014). Gender Issues in the Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises (MSME) Sector in India. The World Bank.  
46 Ibid. 
47 Ibid. 
48 Care International, UK. (2019) Giving Women Better Access to Finance Could Unlock $330 Billion in Annual 
Global Revenue. Business Fights Poverty. 
49 Care International, UK. (2019). Giving Women Better Access to Finance Could Unlock $330 Billion in Annual 
Global Revenue. Business Fights Poverty. 
50 Women Rising 2030 (2018). Better Leadership, Better World: Women Leading for the Global Goals Business 
and Sustainable Development Commission. London 
51 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
52 https://www.empowerwomen.org/en/weps/about 
53 Women Rising 2030 (2018). Better Leadership, Better World: Women Leading for the Global Goals Business 
and Sustainable Development Commission. London. 
54 Ibid. 
55 APEC Small and Medium Enterprises Working Group September (2018) Enhancing the Competitiveness of 
Women-led MSMEs in the Garments and Textile Sector through Innovation and Entrepreneurship  Makati City, 
Philippines. 
56 http://www.greenstrategy.se/about-us/anna-brismar/ 
57  Interview with Sanjay Banka, Managing Director at Banka Bioloo and private sector representative on SWA's 
Steering Committee (2019). Partner Perspectives – High Level Meeting Series. Sanitation and Water for All. 
58 i-San Associates (2017). Barriers and Opportunities for Sanitation SMEs: A study of the wider market system 
in Ghana. USAID Sanitation Service Delivery (SSD) Program 
59 Sustainable Sanitation Practice (2019). CEWAS Success Stories – Issue 27 EcoSan Club Austria, Vienna.  
60 UN-Water. 2018. Sustainable Development Goal 6 - Synthesis Report on Water and Sanitation.  
61 Ibid. 
62 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
63 Ibid. 
64 World Bank (2014). Building Competitive Green Industries: The Climate and Clean Technology Opportunity 
for Developing Countries. 
65 Young, D. and Woods, W. (2019). Innovation Is the Only Way to Win the SDG Race Boston Consulting Group. 
66 Sustainable Sanitation Practice (2019). CEWAS Success Stories – Issue 27 EcoSan Club Austria, Vienna. 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
41 
 
67 Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Policy Support Unit (2018). Identifying Green, Sustainable and 
Innovative MSMEs in APEC. Policy Brief No.19.  
68 Ibid. 
69 Agence Française de Développement (AFD), Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) French Environment & Energy 
Management Agency (ADEME) and The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) (undated). Benchmarking and 
Mapping Indian MSMEs Energy Consumption.  
70 Ibid. 
71 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Centre and Emerging 
Markets Network (EMnet) (2018). Policy Note on Sustainability Better Business For 2030: Putting the SDGs at 
the Core. OECD.  
72 Ibid.  
73 The Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) (2015). Increasing MSME Access to Climate 
Finance.  
74 The Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) (2015). Increasing MSME Access to Climate 
Finance.  
75 Ibid. 
76 Ibid. 
77 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
78 Ibid. 
79 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Deloitte (2016). Unchartered Values Blending Value 
and Values for Social Impact through SDGs. 
80 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
81 Ibid. 
82 Ibid. 
83 OECD (2017). Enhancing the Contributions of SMEs in a Global and Digitalised Economy.  
84 Ibid. 
85 SDG Target 8.3 - “Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job 
creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro -, 
small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services.” 
86 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (2018). Strengthening SMEs and 
entrepreneurship for productivity and inclusive growth – Issue Paper. SME Ministerial Conference. 
87 Liu, C.K. (undated). Policy Brief: The Role of Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises in Achieving SDGs. United 
Nations. 
88 Ibid.  
89 Target 9.3 - “Increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing 
countries, to financial services, including affordable credit, and their integration into value chains and 
markets.” 
90 Liu, C.K. (undated). Policy Brief: The Role of Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises in Achieving SDGs. United 
Nations 
91 Ibid. 
92 Ibid.   
93 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
94 Blue Orchard Academy (2017) SMEs and SDGs: Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises to Achieve the 
Sustainable Development Goals – Insights from a Blue Orchard Survey.  
95 The Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) (2015). Increasing MSME Access to Climate 
Finance. 
96 Ibid. 
97 Target 9.3 – “Increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing 
countries, to financial services, including affordable credit, and their integration into value chains and 
markets”. 
98 United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) (2019). Statistical Indicators of Inclusive and 
Sustainable Industrialization - Biennial Progress Report. 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
42 
 
99 Gurria, A. (2018). SMEs are Key for more Inclusive Growth OECD Observer. 
100 United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) (2019). Statistical Indicators of Inclusive and 
Sustainable Industrialization - Biennial Progress Report 2019. 
101 Ibid.  
102 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. OECD (2017). Enhancing the Contributions of 
SMEs in a Global and Digitalised Economy.  
103 Ibid.  
104 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
105 Ibid. 
106 Business & Sustainable Development Commission. (2017). Better Business Better World.  
107 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (2019). The SDGs as a Lever for Business Innovation – 
Celebration of the 13 Participating Companies in SDG Accelerator for SMEs.  
108  Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA) (2013). How Small and 
Micro Businesses Could Reduce Inequality.  
109 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (2018). Strengthening SMEs and 
Entrepreneurship for Productivity and Inclusive Growth – Issue Paper. SME Ministerial Conference.  
110 Ibid. 
111 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (2017). Enhancing the Contributions of 
SMEs in a Global and Digitalised Economy. 
112 Ibid. 
113 Ibid.  
114 United Nations Development Programme and Deloitte (2016). Unchartered Waters Blending Value and 
Values for Social Impact through the SDGs. 
115 https://projectdignity.sg/ 
116 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
117 Creative industries include the publishing, production and broadcasting of literature and media services, 
such as design, PR and advertising agencies, library and museum activities, artistic education and creation. 
Digital includes software and computer consultancy, programming and the reproduction of sound, video and 
information technology media. Certain news media activities and the manufacturing and wholesale of 
computer related equipment. Professional services include legal, accounting, administrative and management 
consultancy work, as well as scientific research and development and other professional activities.  
118  Business Advice (2016). Innovative “new work” small businesses are fuelling growth, but only in certain 
cities.  
119 Ibid.  
120 Ibid.  
121 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
122 Ibid.  
123 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017) Better Business Better World.  
124 Ibid.  
125 Ibid.  
126 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
127 Ibid.  
128 Ibid.  
129 Ibid.  
130 www.dailydump.org 
131 Liu, C.K. (undated) Policy Brief: The Role of Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises in Achieving SDGs. United 
Nations. 
132 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). (2017). Enhancing the Contributions of 
SMEs in a Global and Digitalised Economy.  
133 Aguilar, S. (2016). Promoting the Participation of Small and Medium Size Enterprises (SMEs) in Green 
Public Procurement. The Sustainable Public Procurement (SPP) Programme of The 10-Year Framework Of 
Programmes on Sustainable Consumption and Production Patterns (10YFP). CEGESTI. 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
43 
 
134 Ibid.  
135 Ibid. 
136 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
137 Ibid. 
138 Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the International Organization of Employers (IOE) (2016). 
Small Business Big Impact SME Sustainability Reporting - From Vision to Action. 
139 Ibid.  
140 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
141 Ibid. 
142 Karlstrom, C. (2018). What impact can SMEs have on the Sustainable Development Goals? Royal Society 
for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA). 
143 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
144 The Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) (2015). Increasing MSME Access to Climate 
Finance. 
145 Ibid.  
146 Ibid.  
147 Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale (GIZ) and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIBDI). 
(undated) Facing the Impacts of Climate Change: Indian MSMEs and Adaptation  GIZ India.. 
148 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
149 Ibid.  
150 Ibid.  
151 Karlstrom, C. 2018. What impact can SMEs have on the Sustainable Development Goals? Royal Society for 
the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA). 
152 Terpstra, P and Ofstedahl, A. 2013. Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises: Key Players in Climate 
Adaptation World Resources Institute (WRI). 
153 Ibid. 
154 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) 2015. Using SMS Texts to Provide Weather Forecasts for 
Small Farmers in West Africa. Relief Web. 
155 BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It 
is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organizations.  
156 United Nations (2017). Oceans Conference Concept Paper Partnership dialogue 5: Increasing Economic 
Benefits to Small Islands Developing States and Least Developed Countries and Providing Access for Small -
Scale Artisanal Fishers to Marine Resources and Markets.  
157 Ibid.  
158 Ibid.  
159 BioTrade is a programme of UNCTAD and refers to the collection, production, transformation and 
commercialization of goods and services derived from native biodiversity in environmentally, socially and 
economically sustainable ways. The sustainability of BioTrade is guaranteed by adherence to principles and the 
working approach focusing on three areas: value chain, ecosystem and adaptive management. 
(https://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/UNCTAD_DITC_TED_2012_6.pdf ). 
160 Ibid.   
161 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
162 Ibid.  
163 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).2019. Rethinking Innovation for a 
Sustainable Ocean Economy.  
164 Ibid.  
165 Michalt. (2019). Small businesses with a BIG vision Turn UN Sustainable Development Goals into Concrete 
Actions. ECOncrete. 
166 Cook, C.D. (undated). Farming for the Future: Agro-ecological Solutions to Feed the World. Friends of the 
Earth. 
167 Agro-ecological methods include farming methods include intercropping, cover cropping, crop rotation, 
conservation tillage, composting, managed livestock grazing and combined animal and plant production. These  

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
 
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
44 
 
methods foster biodiversity, natural soil fertility, water conservation and biological control of insects 
168 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.   
169 Ibid. 
170 Business & Sustainable Development Commission (2017). Better Business Better World.  
171 Ibid. 
172 Wu, A. et. al. (2017). Growing Trees and Growing Profit: Is Your Business a “Restoration Enterprise?”  World 
Resources Institute (WRI).  
173 Ibid. 
174 Ibid.  
175 Ibid.  
176 The Sustainable Development Goals Fund (SDG Fund), University of Pennsylvania Law School an d 
McDermott Will & Emery LLP. (2017). Business and SDG 16, Contributing to Peaceful, Just and Inclusive 
Societies. 
177 Ibid.  
178 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
179 The United Nations Global Compact defines “supply chain sustainability” as the management of 
environmental, social and economic impacts, and the encouragement of good governance practices 
throughout the lifecycles of goods and services 
180 United Nations Global Compact. (2016). A Guide to Traceability for SMEs The Drivers, Opportunities, 
Challenges and Implementation Steps for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) Looking to Adopt 
Traceability in their Supply Chains.  
181 Ibid.  
182 https://www.baselgovernance.org/ 
183 Wannenwetsch, S. (2018). The Integrity App: an Innovative Tool to Support SMEs in Sustainable 
Compliance. Basel Institute on Governance. 
184 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (2017). Enhancing the Contributions of 
SMEs in a Global and Digitalised Economy.  
185 Ibid.  
186 United Nations Independent Expert Advisory Group (IEAG) on the Data Revolution for Sustainable 
Development (2014). A World that Counts: Mobilising the Data Revolution for Sustainable Development. 
187 Karlstrom, C. (2018). What impact can SMEs have on the Sustainable Development Goals? Royal Society 
for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA). 
188 Edwards, C. (2018). UN's Sustainable Development Goals for Small Businesses.  
189 Koreen, M. and Cusmano, L. (2019). Fostering Greater SME Participation in a Globally Integrated Economy. 
SME Policy Faced With Development of Financial Technology.  
190 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (2017). Enhancing the Contributions of 
SMEs in a Global and Digitalised Economy. 
191 Ibid.  
192 Ibid.  
193 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (2019).  Danish BLUETOWN has Developed a Wi-Fi 
Solution that Runs Entirely on Solar Energy. SDG Accelerator for SMEs. 
194 https://www.ushahidi.com/ 