--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C32
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 16
Word Range: 8448 - 8723
Word Count: 276
--------------------

[Page 16]
and North America. According to Akrong et al. ( 2022 ) and Kleemann et al. ( 2014 ), certification positively 
impacted the quantity sold to high-value markets and increased the income of smallholder mango and 
pineapple farmers by about 20%. Furthermore, Smith ( 2010 ) and Ingram et al. ( 2018 ) observed that VSSs 
generated spillover effects, such as the exchange of knowledge and practices, which also benefited non- 
certified farmers in the production area.
4.2.6.  Market dynamics
An important cross-cutting finding emerging from this review is that, in several export-driven value chains, 
certification increasingly functions as an institutionalised governance mechanism rather than a purely 
voluntary tool. For example, in the cocoa and coffee value chains, producers often encounter implicit 
pressures to adopt certification because it serves as a de facto entry requirement for international buyers 
(Grassnick et al., 2021 ). This quasi-mandatory character of VSSs has important implications for farmers’ 
bargaining power and livelihood strategies, reinforcing the need to interpret certification not only as a 
sustainability instrument but also as a form of market governance that shapes the inclusion and exclusion 
of smallholder farmers within global value chains (Bennett, 2017 ; Ponte, 2019 ).
These power dynamics along the value chains intersect with several market challenges that affect the potential 
benefits of adhering to voluntary standards, particularly in the context of the rice value chain in Vietnam. As 
emphasised by Stuart et al. ( 2018 ), Vietnamese farmers face significant challenges such as the lack of established 
channels for certified rice. Additionally, Demont and Rutsaert ( 2017 ) identified other limitations: i) poor linkages 
among stakeholders; ii) the absence of a national and international brand reputation, as Vietnam primarily trades 
low-quality rice; and iii) the high use of pesticides to manage insect pests and plant diseases, even among farmers 
adopting VSSs. These constraints together with other market asymmetries, such as information and infrastructure 
gaps, hinder the adoption and scaling of VSSs in the rice value chain in Vietnam (Stuart et al., 2018 ).
4.3.  Environmental dimension
The ensuing subsections examine relevant environmental aspects of VSS adoption by smallholder farmers. 
First, we assess how VSSs promote sustainable practices, such as IPM and water conservation techniques. 
Next, we evaluate the challenges in fully implementing these practices, including limited financial resources 
and inadequate training. Finally, we address the impact on biodiversity and the preference for monocrop -
ping systems within certain VSS schemes.
4.3.1.  Adoption of sustainable practices
Mauthofer and Santos ( 2022 ) and Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ) found that certified cocoa farmers in Ghana 
show a greater understanding and awareness of environmental issues due to trainings on IPM and soil 
improvement practices (e.g. use of compost and manure), which also enhance yield. Fenger et al. ( 2017 ) 
revealed that certified cocoa farmers reduced the frequency of burning over a 5-year period to comply with 
specific VSS objectives. Moreover, they implemented measures such as establishing buffer zones along farm 
boundaries and near rivers and other water bodies to minimise agrochemical leaching and contamination 
(Fenger et al., 2017 ). According to Stuart et al. ( 2018 ), certified farmers embraced water-saving techniques 
like alternate wetting and drying (AWD) to optimise irrigation times and reduce water consumption in rice 
cultivation. Akrong et al. ( 2023 ) observed that certified mango farmers in Ghana reduced their reliance on 
inorganic fertilisers, pesticides and herbicides, opting instead for indigenous methods of weed control. 
Moreover, farmers adhering to organic standards, while reducing their dependency on chemical inputs, 
increase the use of natural fertilisers and recycle nutrients, contributing to improved soil health and 
enhanced water retention in crop fields. Waarts et al. ( 2015 ) noticed also improved pesticides handling 
among certified farmers, observing: i) better health and safety practices, such as proper chemical waste 
disposal; ii) increased adoption of measures to reduce water contamination; and iii) enhanced use of 
personal protective equipment (PPE). In addition, Bennett and Franzel ( 2013 ) found that eliminating 
hazardous chemicals and promoting the use of PPE significantly reduced injury rate among certified 
producers. However, Klier and Possinger ( 2012 ) emphasised that, while training on the use of fertilisers 
and chemicals was crucial for creating a safer work environment, farmers could not afford to buy 
expensive PPE.
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 15