--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 1897 - 2146
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 4]
2.2. Literature search
The selected studies considered for this analytical assessment have been retrieved from Evidensia Library 
(https://www.evidensia.eco), a multi-stakeholder initiative and knowledge platform providing evidence on 
supply chain sustainability tools, including VSSs. To ensure the comparability and reliability of the results, 
the Evidensia database includes only studies that meet stringent quality criteria in terms of research design 
(Evidensia, 2024 ). For the analysis of the literature, scientific articles and reports have been searched within 
the Evidensia database using filters for the specific tool we were interested in, namely ‘Voluntary 
Sustainability Standards’, and the countries of interest, ‘Ghana’ and ‘Vietnam’. As of the end of January 
2024, 49 publications have been retrieved in total.
2.3. Paper selection and classification criteria
The PRISMA 2020 framework was adopted for the selection of relevant studies (Page et al., 2021 ) ( Figure 1 ). 
Several criteria were applied to screen and classify the 49 studies for this analytical assessment:
1. Studies that were not strictly focused on the production of crop-based food-agricultural commodities 
were excluded. Therefore, non-food agricultural commodities such as cotton and flowers, as well as fish, 
meat, and dairy products, were not considered.  
2. Only empirical studies based on primary data collection in the field were included. These studies had to 
explicitly investigate the relationship between VSSs and farmers’ livelihood outcomes in Ghana and Vietnam. 
3. Publications that merely described the contribution of VSSs to specific outcomes (e.g. gender, bio -
diversity) without explaining the impact of VSSs on these indicators were excluded.
Table 1. Definition of capitals and related socioeconomic and environmental indicators according to the SLF.    
Capital Indicator
Human: the competencies, knowledge, ability to work and health 
status that together enable farmers to pursue livelihood 
strategies and achieve personal and family goals
✓ Gender parity: the level of participation and benefits received by 
women in the value chains  
✓ Labour rights: the adherence to fair labour practices, including the 
provision of formal contracts, equal remuneration without 
discrimination, and safe working conditions  
✓ Capacity building: the provision of training and extension services to 
enhance the skills and knowledge of farmers, enabling them to adopt 
sustainable farming practices
Financial: the economic resources derived from available stocks 
and inflows of money at household level
✓ Yield: the total production of a specific commodity, including the 
output per hectare  
✓ Costs: the expenses incurred by farmers, including certification and 
labour costs   
✓ Income: the total and net income derived from the production of 
certified commodities, including price premiums and profitability 
received for sustainably produced goods
Social: the social resources (e.g. networks, affiliations, associations) 
and relationships (e.g. trust and reciprocity) which farmers draw 
on in pursuit of their livelihood objectives 
✓ Market access: the ability of farmers to sell their products in national 
and international markets  
✓ Value chain integration: the extent to which farmers are integrated 
into horizontal (collaboration with other producers) and vertical 
(linkages with processors and retailers) value chains  
✓ Child labour: the prohibition of child labour, ensuring that children 
are not involved in hazardous agricultural tasks
Physical: the availability of fixed capital (e.g. land), tools and 
equipment (e.g. pruning knives, protective equipment, 
packaging) to support farmers’ business
✓ Land access: the rights and accessibility of land for farmers, including 
secure land tenure  
✓ Tools & equipment: the availability of essential farming tools and 
protective equipment, such as pruning knives and safety gear  
✓ Access to credit: the accessibility of financial services and credit for 
farmers
Natural: the availability of natural resources (e.g. crop and 
livestock diversity) and environmental services (e.g. water 
provisions) which promote the sustainable use of the 
environment
✓ Biodiversity: the variety of plant and animal species present at the 
farm level, including the diversity of vegetables, fruits and livestock  
✓ Water management: the adoption and implementation of practices 
that improve water use efficiency, such as irrigation techniques, 
recycling and conservation methods  
✓ Use of agrochemicals: the regulation and control of chemical inputs 
in farming, including the prohibition of hazardous chemicals and the 
limitation of chemical treatments
Note: Authors’ elaboration based on DFID ( 1999 ). 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 3