--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C18
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 11
Word Range: 4721 - 4970
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
value chain integration (13), such as the setting of production groups and cooperatives. Although natural 
capital presented mainly positive outcomes (20), a relatively high number of observations (10) indicated 
some negative effects in terms of biodiversity, water management, and the adoption of agrochemicals at 
the farm level associated with VSSs ( Table 4 and Figure 4 ).
Figure 5 illustrated a comparison of the effects of VSSs on the SLF across social, economic, and 
environmental indicators in Vietnam and Ghana. Overall, VSSs had positive impacts in both countries; 
however, the extent and nature of these effects varied also according to the specific value chain. Ghana 
generally exhibited more substantial positive outcomes across most indicators, particularly in economic and 
social aspects. In Ghana, VSSs significantly increased income levels for local farmers, with 18 positive 
outcomes compared to only 6 in Vietnam. Similarly, the impact of VSSs on agricultural yield was stronger in 
Ghana, where 9 positive outcomes were reported, whereas in Vietnam recorded only 3. In terms of labour 
rights, Ghana saw improvements with 5 positive outcomes, reflecting enhanced working conditions and fair 
labour practices. In contrast, Vietnam showed 1 positive outcome, indicating that improvements in labour 
rights were less pronounced. Additionally, VSSs improved market access in Ghana, with 9 positive 
outcomes, while Vietnam had only 2 positive outcomes in this area. VSSs in Vietnam displayed more 
neutral and variable impacts, suggesting that, while there were benefits, they were less consistent or 
pronounced compared to those observed in Ghana. In Vietnam, capacity building received 3 positive 
outcomes, which was significantly lower than Ghana's 11 positive outcomes, indicating a less extensive 
impact. Similarly, although VSSs in Vietnam made some progress in reducing child labour, with 1 positive 
outcome, in Ghana, VSSs achieved more success with 4 positive results. Moreover, the use of agrochemicals 
had a more negative effect in Vietnam: there were 3 negative outcomes associated with the use of 
agrochemicals in Vietnam, whereas 1 negative outcome in Ghana.
A few indicators, including ‘biodiversity’, ‘tools and equipment’, and ‘land access’, were not covered by 
the reviewed studies conducted in Vietnam. This gap in indicators reflects the thematic focus of the 
available evidence: most of the studies examined financial capital (e.g. yield, income, costs) rather than 
physical and natural capital indicators. Moreover, some assessments and evaluation reports in Vietnam 
were conducted at the farm or cooperative level and did not systematically collect and analyse land tenure 
and biodiversity data.
Figure 5. Comparison of the effects of VSSs on the SLF indicators in Vietnam and Ghana, using a traffic-light 
visualisation. Note: The following indicators - biodiversity, tools and equipment and land access - were not addressed 
by the selected studies on the effects of VSSs in Vietnam.
10
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA