--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 3
Word Range: 1 - 1526
Word Count: 1,526
--------------------

[Page 1]
International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability
ISSN: 1473-5903 (Print) 1747-762X (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/tags20
How do the voluntary sustainability standards
contribute to enhancing smallholder farmers’
livelihoods and progress towards SDGs?
A systematic review of crop-based food
commodities in Ghana and Vietnam
Raﬀaele D’Annolfo & Federica Demaria
To cite this article: Raﬀaele D’Annolfo & Federica Demaria (2026) How do the voluntary
sustainability standards contribute to enhancing smallholder farmers’ livelihoods and
progress towards SDGs? A systematic review of crop-based food commodities in Ghana
and Vietnam, International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability, 24:1, 2616059, DOI:
10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059
To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059
© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa
UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis
Group.
View supplementary material 
Published online: 18 Jan 2026.
 Submit your article to this journal 
Article views: 857
 View related articles 
View Crossmark data
Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=tags20

[Page 2]
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY 
2026, VOL. 24, NO. 1, 2616059 
https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059
RESEARCH ARTICLE                                                                      
How do the voluntary sustainability standards contribute to enhancing 
smallholder farmers’ livelihoods and progress towards SDGs? A 
systematic review of crop-based food commodities in Ghana and Vietnam
Raffaele D’Annolfo
 and Federica Demaria
Council for Agricultural Research and Economics (CREA), Research Centre for Agricultural Policies and Bioeconomy (CREA-PB), 
Rome, Italy
ABSTRACT
This research investigates the effects of Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSSs) on small -
holder farmers’ livelihoods within crop-based food commodity value chains in Ghana and 
Vietnam. Using the Sustainable Livelihood Framework (SLF), the study examines how VSSs 
(e.g. Fairtrade, GlobalGAP, Rainforest Alliance) influence the capital endowments upon which 
farmers depend. A systematic review of 26 empirical studies from the Evidensia Library was 
conducted to assess the effects of VSSs on 15 economic, social, and environmental indicators 
within the SLF. The main findings suggest that VSSs can enhance income, capacity building, 
and value chain integration among farmers, alongside other socioeconomic and environ -
mental benefits. However, negative effects are primarily associated with high input costs, 
biodiversity impacts, and the use of agrochemicals. Moreover, challenges and trade-offs 
persist, including limited women’s participation and the transfer of price premiums to 
smallholder farmers adopting sustainability schemes. This study underscores critical issues 
in the implementation of VSSs and provides policy recommendations, including fostering 
bottom-up approaches for extension service provision. It also emphasizes the need for 
stronger partnerships among governments, development agencies, and multistakeholder 
initiatives to address chronic issues of the agrifood system in developing countries, and to 
enhance the role of VSSs in advancing the SDGs by 2030.
ARTICLE HISTORY 
Received 29 January 2025 
Accepted 7 January 2026 
KEYWORDS
Sustainability standards; 
smallholder farmers; SLF; 
commodities; certifications
1. Introduction
Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSSs) are a diverse set of principles and objectives established by third-party 
organisations, under which farmers are independently assessed and certified (Iddrisu et al., 2020 ). While the 
concept of VSSs has existed since the 1970s, their widespread adoption is a relatively recent phenomenon. The 
VSSs emerged as bottom-up, local standards developed worldwide through farmer-led initiatives, such as the 
International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM), which was established in 1972 as a 
communications network among various organic agriculture projects (Addae-Boadu et al., 2017 ). VSSs gained 
prominence in the 1990s, experiencing consistent growth until the early 2010s. Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs) played a crucial role in developing and disseminating standards because, unlike govern -
ments, they were more flexible and less constrained by formal procedures, allowing them to respond more 
effectively to market change (Oosterveer et al., 2014 ). According to the UNCTAD (2023), the proliferation of VSSs 
from the 1990s to the 2010s was influenced by various factors: i) consumer awareness; ii) motivations of firms to 
adopt VSSs; iii) response to failures of multilateral regulatory efforts; iv) reaction to the emergence of other VSSs; 
and v) governments’ engagement with VSSs. However, in the past few years, the expansion of VSSs has been 
slowing down, and the numbers have stabilised since 2017 (UNCTAD, 2023 ).
Theoretically, certification enables producers to set sustainable targets, while allowing consumers to 
differentiate among agricultural products based on their embedded social and environmental characteristics 
(Addae-Boadu et al., 2017 ). This enhanced information supports higher prices for certified products and, in turn, 
Supplemental data for this article can be accessed online at https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2026.2616059.
© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. 
This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial License ((http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- 
nc/4.0/), which permits unrestricted non-commercial use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. The terms on 
which this article has been published allow the posting of the Accepted Manuscript in a repository by the author(s) or with their consent.
CONTACT Raffaele D’Annolfo 
 raffaele.dannolfo@crea.gov.it
 Council for Agricultural Research and Economics (CREA), Research Centre for 
Agricultural Policies and Bioeconomy (CREA-PB), Via Barberini n. 36, 00187, Rome, Italy

[Page 3]
provides financial incentives, known as price premiums, for farmers to meet certification standards (Addae- 
Boadu et al., 2017 ). However, in recent years several scholars have noted that the notion of ‘voluntary’ 
certification is increasingly misleading, particularly in export-oriented sectors such as cocoa, coffee, and palm 
oil. Although formally optional, VSSs very often operate as de facto market requirements (Elamin & de Córdoba, 
2020 ). International buyers and processing companies frequently required certified products as a precondition 
for sourcing (Elamin & de Córdoba, 2020 ). This dynamic has created forms of market-driven coercion whereby 
smallholder farmers have to comply with certification to maintain market access, thus limiting their autonomy in 
decision-making (Bennett, 2021 ; Bitzer & Steijn, 2019 ; Ponte & Sturgeon, 2014 ).
As emphasised by Oya et al. ( 2018 ) and Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ) the VSSs have the potential to provide 
positive economic, environmental and social benefits to smallholder farmers, contributing to several 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the same time. By promoting the adoption of sustainable farming 
practices and increasing product quality, VSSs empower farmers to participate in high-remunerative value 
chains, such as those in the EU and North American markets (Akrong et al., 2022 ). However, the adoption of 
VSSs may also impose additional financial burdens for producers, such as certification costs, and the 
enforcement of higher labour standards (e.g. ILO Conventions), which can be challenging for poorer 
smallholder farmers to meet (Maertens & Swinnen, 2015 ). Moreover, voluntary certifications might also 
shift local production away or redirect agricultural goods from food production to more profitable 
commodity markets (Oosterveer et al., 2014 ). Finally, the lack of institutional coordination, financial and 
technical capacities for accessible certification in developing countries could also represent a significant 
barrier for smallholders in adopting VSSs (FAO, 2014 ; Meemken, 2020 ).
Given the varying effects presented in the literature on the impacts of VSSs, further investigation and 
assessment is needed to understand how certification schemes can effectively contribute to improving 
smallholder farmers’ livelihoods. Adopting an inclusive approach, this study aims to address the following 
research questions:
• Are VSSs effective in improving smallholder farmers’ livelihoods within food-agricultural commodity 
value chains?  
• What are the main advantages and trade-offs associated with VSSs adoption in Ghana and Vietnam?  
• To what extent can VSSs be leveraged as sustainable market-oriented tools to achieve the SDGs Agenda 
by 2030?
2. Methodology
2.1. Socioeconomic and environmental indicators
The analysis of the effects of VSSs on smallholder farmers’ livelihoods is based on the Sustainable Livelihood 
Framework (SLF), originally developed by Chambers & Conway, ( 1992 ) and later adapted by the Department for 
International Development of the UK (DFID, 1999 ). According to the SLF, a livelihood is made up of capabilities, 
material and social capitals, and activities required to earn a living (DFID, 1999 ). The SLF has been widely used as 
a tool to analyse rural poverty from a multidimensional perspective (Bennett & Franzel, 2013 ; Nelson et al., 2013 ; 
Garibaldi et al., 2017 ; D’Annolfo et al., 2017 ) and to assess which components of certification schemes have the 
greatest impact on farmers’ livelihoods (Fenger et al., 2017 ). The SLF is based on five capital endowments: 
human, social, financial, physical and natural ( Table 1 ). For each of the aforementioned capitals, three relevant 
socioeconomic and environmental indicators were selected based on the literature on VSSs to systematically 
extract and collect quantitative and qualitative evidence ( Table 1 ).
In order to identify the relevant SDGs for the analysis, we referenced the studies of Bissinger et al. ( 2020 ) and 
Kosolapova et al. ( 2023 ), which offered comprehensive mappings of VSSs against the 17 SDGs. Therefore, a 
shortlist of SDGs and related targets was selected according to the main scope of this research ( Table 2 ).
The SLF guided both the coding and synthesis of evidence by classifying each identified livelihood outcome 
under one of the five capitals: human, social, financial, physical, and natural. This structure ensured analytical 
consistency across heterogeneous studies and enabled a systematic comparison of VSS effects across indicators, 
commodities and value chains in different countries. The SLF framework also supported the integration of 
findings into broader sustainability dimensions aligned with the selected SDGs.
2
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA