--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-106-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-106
Page Range: Page 4 to Page 5
Word Range: 2147 - 2396
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 4]
2.2. Literature search
The selected studies considered for this analytical assessment have been retrieved from Evidensia Library 
(https://www.evidensia.eco), a multi-stakeholder initiative and knowledge platform providing evidence on 
supply chain sustainability tools, including VSSs. To ensure the comparability and reliability of the results, 
the Evidensia database includes only studies that meet stringent quality criteria in terms of research design 
(Evidensia, 2024 ). For the analysis of the literature, scientific articles and reports have been searched within 
the Evidensia database using filters for the specific tool we were interested in, namely ‘Voluntary 
Sustainability Standards’, and the countries of interest, ‘Ghana’ and ‘Vietnam’. As of the end of January 
2024, 49 publications have been retrieved in total.
2.3. Paper selection and classification criteria
The PRISMA 2020 framework was adopted for the selection of relevant studies (Page et al., 2021 ) ( Figure 1 ). 
Several criteria were applied to screen and classify the 49 studies for this analytical assessment:
1. Studies that were not strictly focused on the production of crop-based food-agricultural commodities 
were excluded. Therefore, non-food agricultural commodities such as cotton and flowers, as well as fish, 
meat, and dairy products, were not considered.  
2. Only empirical studies based on primary data collection in the field were included. These studies had to 
explicitly investigate the relationship between VSSs and farmers’ livelihood outcomes in Ghana and Vietnam. 
3. Publications that merely described the contribution of VSSs to specific outcomes (e.g. gender, bio -
diversity) without explaining the impact of VSSs on these indicators were excluded.
Table 1. Definition of capitals and related socioeconomic and environmental indicators according to the SLF.    
Capital Indicator
Human: the competencies, knowledge, ability to work and health 
status that together enable farmers to pursue livelihood 
strategies and achieve personal and family goals
✓ Gender parity: the level of participation and benefits received by 
women in the value chains  
✓ Labour rights: the adherence to fair labour practices, including the 
provision of formal contracts, equal remuneration without 
discrimination, and safe working conditions  
✓ Capacity building: the provision of training and extension services to 
enhance the skills and knowledge of farmers, enabling them to adopt 
sustainable farming practices
Financial: the economic resources derived from available stocks 
and inflows of money at household level
✓ Yield: the total production of a specific commodity, including the 
output per hectare  
✓ Costs: the expenses incurred by farmers, including certification and 
labour costs   
✓ Income: the total and net income derived from the production of 
certified commodities, including price premiums and profitability 
received for sustainably produced goods
Social: the social resources (e.g. networks, affiliations, associations) 
and relationships (e.g. trust and reciprocity) which farmers draw 
on in pursuit of their livelihood objectives 
✓ Market access: the ability of farmers to sell their products in national 
and international markets  
✓ Value chain integration: the extent to which farmers are integrated 
into horizontal (collaboration with other producers) and vertical 
(linkages with processors and retailers) value chains  
✓ Child labour: the prohibition of child labour, ensuring that children 
are not involved in hazardous agricultural tasks
Physical: the availability of fixed capital (e.g. land), tools and 
equipment (e.g. pruning knives, protective equipment, 
packaging) to support farmers’ business
✓ Land access: the rights and accessibility of land for farmers, including 
secure land tenure  
✓ Tools & equipment: the availability of essential farming tools and 
protective equipment, such as pruning knives and safety gear  
✓ Access to credit: the accessibility of financial services and credit for 
farmers
Natural: the availability of natural resources (e.g. crop and 
livestock diversity) and environmental services (e.g. water 
provisions) which promote the sustainable use of the 
environment
✓ Biodiversity: the variety of plant and animal species present at the 
farm level, including the diversity of vegetables, fruits and livestock  
✓ Water management: the adoption and implementation of practices 
that improve water use efficiency, such as irrigation techniques, 
recycling and conservation methods  
✓ Use of agrochemicals: the regulation and control of chemical inputs 
in farming, including the prohibition of hazardous chemicals and the 
limitation of chemical treatments
Note: Authors’ elaboration based on DFID ( 1999 ). 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY
 3

[Page 5]
The final database included 26 studies, comprising scientific publications and reports ( Table 3 ). The 
selected 26 publications examining the effects of VSSs on smallholder livelihoods comprised 16 peer- 
reviewed articles, 9 technical reports and 1 working paper. Among these, a subset of 21 publications 
conducted a statistical analysis comparing the performance of farms implementing VSSs through 
matching processes, such as comparisons between certified and non-certified farmers or pre- and 
post-intervention.
Finally, an analytical framework was developed in Excel, and the selected socioeconomic and environ -
mental indicators were tested on a limited number of publications (4) to guide the systematic extraction of 
information from the reviewed papers.
2.4.  Data analysis techniques
A vote-counting method was employed to identify general trends between the adoption of VSSs and the 
selected socioeconomic and environmental indicators based on the SLF (D’Annolfo et al., 2017 ; Knowler & 
Bradshaw, 2007 ; Prokopy et al., 2008 ). The following classification of effects was adopted:
• Positive: when the study documented a statistically significant improvement or a clearly stated beneficial 
change in the indicator among certified farmers compared to non-certified farmers, or when the authors 
explicitly attributed the improvement to VSS participation;  
• Neutral: when the study reported no statistically significant difference in the indicator between certified 
and non-certified farmers, or when results were mixed or inconclusive, with no clear directional change 
attributable to sustainability certification; 
Table 2. List of selected SDGs and related targets considered in the analysis.    
SDG Target
1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the 
vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to 
basic services, ownership and control over land and other forms of 
property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology and 
financial services, including microfinance
2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition 
and promote sustainable agriculture
2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale 
food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, 
pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, 
other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, 
markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment
2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement 
resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, 
that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to 
climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters 
and that progressively improve land and soil quality
5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere
6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and 
ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water 
scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from 
water scarcity
8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work 
for all
8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support productive 
activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, 
and encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, small- and 
medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services
8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end 
modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and 
elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and 
use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular 
women migrants, and those in precarious employment
12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals 
and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed 
international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, 
water and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human 
health and the environment
Note: Authors’ elaboration based on UN ( 2015 ). 
4
 R. D’ANNOLFO AND F. DEMARIA