--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 27 to Page 28
Word Range: 10999 - 12242
Word Count: 1,244
--------------------

[Page 27]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
27 
Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
 
This goal has 11 targets. It includes targets to substantially reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction and recycling by 2030, promotes sustainable management of 
natural resources, sustainable lifestyles and consumption behaviours, sustainable business 
practices and sustainability reporting for businesses. The goal calls for int egrating 
sustainability to public procurement and promotes international cooperation on research 
and development that facilitate sustainable consumption and production.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 12? 
 
MSMEs as a group have significant cumulative social and environmental impacts. MSMEs form the backbone of 
national economies and the global supply chains of large companies. Individually, MSMEs have relatively small 
environmental and social impacts, but as a group, the impacts are much larger. MSMEs comprise a major share 
of total private sector entities in both 
developed and developing countries ; in  
developing countries such as Peru, 98 percent 
of private enterprises are MSMEs.131 Reducing 
the environmental impact of MSMEs is core to 
the successful performance of this goal. This is 
particularly urgent for MSMEs in the 
manufacturing sector, which accounts for a 
large part of the world’s consumption of 
resources, air and water po llution and 
generation of waste. 132  In India, there is a 
significant number of MSMEs that belong to 
categories recognized as highly polluting 
industries: chemical and allied industries, 
leather industries, textile processing, drugs 
and pharmaceuticals, agro-chemicals and food 
processing industries.133 MSMEs are unable to comply with environmental standards due to factors such as lack 
of information, lack of access to capital, lack of adaptation of environmental regulations to the social, economic 
and technical reality of local businesses and effective possibilities of cont rol bodies, difficulty in recruiting 
qualified personnel, less awareness about environmental issues, and less environmental pressures from 
stakeholders.134 Building capacity of MSMEs in these areas is therefore key to the achievement of the goal .  
SDG Target  12.7 under this goal promotes public procurement practices that are sustainable . MSMEs are a 
major player in public procurement in many countries - 57 percent of the suppliers to public procurement in 
Brazil are MSMEs, up to 98 percent in Ecuador, and in China up to 76.2 percent of the government procurement 
contracts is granted to MSMEs. 135 Greening public procurement can pose challenges for MSME participation in 
public procurement. Strengthening policies and capacity -building support for MSMEs can help add ress the 
challenges MSMEs face to integrate in green public procurement. 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt sustainable business practices. In general, MSMEs are more  flexible than 
large companies, making them  more likely to adopt sustainable business pract ices. MSMEs have to be 
incentivized to adopt sustainable business practices and to report which can be beneficial for them. MSMEs 
need to be informed that the transition can help businesses to become more competitive, cut costs and optimize 
operations. A 2014 McKinsey study found that 44 percent of sustainable business leaders cite growth and new 
business opportunities as reasons for tackling sustainability challenges. 136 In a review of 200 studies on 
sustainability and corporate performance, Oxford University and Arabesque Partners concluded that 90 percent 
of studies in this area found that high environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards reduced 
companies’ cost of capital, and that 80 percent show a positive correlation between stock price performa nce

[Page 28]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
28 
and good sustainability practices. 137  Business development support programmes provided by government 
departments and international organizations need to share additional good practices with MSME entrepreneurs 
on demonstrating sustainability as promising  business solutions conducive for enhancing efficiency, innovation 
and positive recognition among stakeholders.  
MSMEs can contribute to sustainability reporting. Currently, a small percentage of MSMEs carry out sustainability 
reporting. In 2015, MSMEs accounted for just 10 percent of the total number of sustainability reports captured 
in the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability Disclosure Database, with 90  percent coming from large 
and multinational organizations. 138 Yet, sustainability reporting  is vital for micro, small, medium  and large 
enterprises alike.139 MSMEs need to be motivated to start reporting and need to be made aware of the benefits 
of reporting. According to Stichting GRI, benefits include increased transparency to stakeholders and b etter risk 
management, while driving business development and the optimization of business processes.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal .  
They can: 
▪ Reduce manufacturing impacts by substituting raw materials in products with post-consumer 
materials through recycling and upcycling.140 
▪ Significantly reduce waste and ensure that any unavoidable waste is utilized to the fullest degree 
(e.g. organic waste as fuel or fertilizer).141 
▪ Conduct a simple audit to see where money is being spent, what waste it relates to and what 
MSME entrepreneurs could do to prevent negative environmental impacts as the first step to 
develop an impact reduction plan.142 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will  help achieve the SDGs. Promotion of sustainable practice 
will offer new or competitive business opportunities for MSMEs in a range of areas : public procurement , 
consumer information (such as eco-labelling, certification), sustainable tourism, lifestyle education, retrofitting 
buildings and construction, and food systems. A potential area is the circular model and approaches to design, 
manufacturing and reuse which keep resources in play for as long as possible and recover and reuse spent 
materials and prod ucts. The  report of the Business & Sustainable Development Commission estimates that 
circular models in the automotive industry  have a potential value in 2030 of  US $475-810 billion in current 
prices and circular models of appliances and machinery have a p otential value in 2030 of US $305 -525 
billion.143 MSMEs can play a critical role in the logistics of circular businesses and recycling processes. Start-ups 
and existing MSMEs need to be equipped with skills, matched with investors and markets to exploit thes e 
opportunities, which in turn will contribute to the progress of this goal.  
MSMEs and green public procurement    
One of the challenges for MSMEs to participate in green public procurement is the need for use of ecolabels and 
certifications, which incurs costs, resources and expertise that MSMEs are not able to cover. The Brazilian Development 
Bank (BNDES) offers a cr edit card to MSMEs (through several commercial banks), with up to 48 months to pay and 
preferential interest rates, which can be used to pay for raw materials and other goods, as well as for services, such as 
metrology, standardization and conformity assessment services (calibration, laboratory tests, certifications), such as ISO 
certification provided by entities accredited by the national accreditation body. This is complemented by SEBRAE, a 
Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service. This organiz ation has implemented several programmes to foster 
entrepreneurship. SEBRAE subsidizes 50 percent of the value of the service approved for the MSMEs (which is responsible 
to pay the rest), or 60 percent in the case of Individual Micro-entrepreneurs or Rural Producers. The MSME’s counterpart 
can be paid using the BNDES card described before. The services that can be accessed through SEBRAE’s Sebraetec 
include product design, ISO certification, OHSA certifications, and certification of organic products, among other services. 
Although the direct impact of this initiative is unknown, evidence shows that MSMEs have sustainable business practices 
in Brazil. In 2014, MSMEs accounted for 66.8 percent of the reported sustainable purchases in Brazil and out of 3,563 
suppliers that were registered for sustainable purchases, 89 percent were MSMEs.