--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C24
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 17
Word Range: 6737 - 6986
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 17]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
17 
Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy for all 
 
This goal has five targets. They focus on ensuring energy access for all, promoting 
renewable energy, improving energy efficiency and strengthening international cooperation 
to promote clean energy research and technology and energy infrastructure.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 7? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for becoming more energy efficient.  
While individual small businesses have low environmental 
footprints, their combined impact can exceed th at of large 
businesses. MSMEs may produce more pollution than big 
businesses because of their informal nature and the resulting 
lack of regulations and supervision. 67 Studies have estimate d 
that these businesses can contribute up to 60 -70 percent of 
pollution levels in developing economies. 68  Encouraging 
MSMEs to adopt green technology and other environmentally -
friendly strategies are therefore essential to the progress on 
Goal 7. A study in India showed that an estimated 26 million 
MSME enterprises account for about 45 percent of India’s 
industrial production and 40 percent of exports; out of 400 
manufacturing clusters, nearly half comprise energy intensive sectors (metallurgy ceramics, glass, textiles, 
etc.).69 According to the study, a majority of the MSME clusters use conventional and ineffici ent technologies. 
The total energy saving potential of MSMEs in 36 clusters was identified as about 16 percent of their total energy 
consumption. The study noted that although the importance of energy efficiency was recognized by most MSMEs, 
the uptake of energy efficient measures remains low and is attributable to non -availability of technologies, lack 
of local service providers, poor technical capacities of MSMEs, and limited access to credit. 70 
MSMEs can be incentivized by larger enterprises to integrate sustainable practices in their operations . 71 
Multinational enterprises  can lead by exa mple through their market power  in demonstrating the value of  
‘sustainability premium’, i.e. higher price for a p roduct produced in a sustainable manner . They can encourage 
smaller firms in their supply chains to focus on sustainability standards. They can further benefit from investing 
in MSMEs to get access to new markets. The French multinational energy company ENGIE, for example, has set 
up a corporate impact venture fund that invests in social enterprises that aim to provide sustainable energy 
access for vulnerable populations around the world . 72  Through these investments, ENGIE offers financ ial 
resources to MSMEs in the energy sector. ENGIE also gains access to new business opportunities through 
investing in social enterprises.  
MSME finance can contribute to Goal 7. A report by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network ( CDKN) 
estimates that the credit gap for MSMEs providing climate technologies is approximately US  $4-5 billion across 
developing countries. It further explains that access to climate finance is a challenge for MSMEs because of a 
lack of awareness, lack of an enabling environment and the limited availability of financial products for greening 
activities and climate technology. 73 The Green Climate Fund  (GCF) recognizes the importance of including 
MSMEs for climate action and dedicated an MSME programme for US $200 million under th e Private Sector 
Facility. 74  GCF is supporting MSME projects on energy efficient approaches . Other initiatives include the