--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C61
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 37
Word Range: 16945 - 17224
Word Count: 280
--------------------

[Page 37]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
37 
Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the 
global partnership for sustainable development  
 
This goal has 19 targets. It promotes financing of development through domestic resource 
mobilisation, overseas development assistance (ODA), trade and investment promotion and calls 
for addressing debt sustainability, etc. The goal promotes international cooperation on access 
to science, technology and innovation, capacity building, improving policy and institutional 
coherence, data and monitoring of SDGs and encourages multi-sector partnerships.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 17? 
 
MSMEs account for a large share of added value in international trade when indirect linkages are taken into 
account. Overall, MSMEs tend to be under -represented in international trade. Across OECD and non -OECD 
Members, few MSMEs export directly and for those that do, exports typically represent a lower share of trade 
turnover (relati ve to larger firms). 184 However, when considering MSMEs’ indirect contribution to exports, as 
suppliers to larger domestic firms or multinational companies that export, MSMEs in OECD countries can 
represent more than half of total exports  in value added terms .185 The quality and responsiveness of MSMEs 
that supply goods and services to multinational companies that export play a key role in the competitiveness of 
entire supply chains, at both local and global levels. Harnessing this interdependency between MSMEs and larger 
businesses and coordination between the entities can therefore contribute to promotion of trade and competitive 
supply chains.  
MSMEs are a source of partnership to implement SDGs.  Small businesses ad dress societal needs through  
market solutions as demonstrated by social enterprises (see Goal 10). MSMEs also play a role in public -private 
partnerships (PPP) to provide services to address various developmental challenges. They can participate in 
dialogues with governments and communities to find solutions to development problems as they work cl osely 
with communities. They can contribute to society through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices.  
MSMEs are a source of data for SDG monitoring and reporting.  The former Secretary-General of the United 
Nations Ban Ki-moon called for a ‘data revolution’ for the SDGs. This refers to the “integration of new data with 
traditional data to produce high-quality information that is more detailed, timely and relevant for many purposes 
and users, especially to foster and monitor sustainable development”, which encourages governments to engage 
with private-sector actors who generate large amounts of data through their work. 186 MSMEs which are present 
in a range of value chains and employ a large share of the population have potentials for gen erating data that 
can assist in monitoring the SDGs.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal. They 
can take a collaborative initiative and seek  a local charity that the organisation is clos e to and have a 
conversation on how the business can support their work.187 They could also partake in SDG-related partnerships 
like the UN's Make the Global Goals Local campaign, the SDG reporting initiative and locally-based sustainability 
initiatives.188