--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C58
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 36
Word Range: 16140 - 16389
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 36]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
36 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs resulting from the 2030 Agenda and SDGs. Supply 
chain policies and programmes offer key 
opportunities for companies to scale up their 
sustainability practices, thus contributing to the 
advancement of the SDGs.179 Traceability is the 
ability to identify and trace the history, 
distribution, location and application of 
products, parts and materials, to ensure  the 
reliability of sustainability claims, in the areas of 
human rights, labour (including health and 
safety), the environment and anti-corruption.180 
Adopting traceability schemes and initiatives 
can lead to an increase in market base and 
appeal, in many cases allowing MSMEs to offset 
costs involved in adopting these schemes by 
charging premium prices for their products and 
services of higher quality.  
 
Business examples and initiatives that promote MSME governance         
Dipantara and the traceability scheme.181 Global traceability organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), 
the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and UTZ Certified, engage with stakeholders along the entire value chain. This 
allows for the development of a credible and robust chain of custody standards and certification for products from the raw 
material to the final use phase. Dipantara, a small community wood trading initiative in the province of Java, Indonesia, 
has developed a group business model aimed at helping smallholder farmers and farmers’ groups in the region sell their 
wood to the international market. Maisons du Monde, a UN Global Compact participant signatory, and The Forest Trust 
(TFT) homeware retail member has supported the Dipantara farmers’ initiative by placing orders for its stores. Dipantara, 
as a non -profit business entity, partners with 96 farmers’ groups across 22 villages totaling 7,966 farmers that have 
registered with the business. By 2012, it had helped 20 of these farmer groups achieve Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certification. The initiative’s efforts help buyers identify the source of wood and trace it back to the tree stump, while at  
the same time increasing revenues for farmers with smallholdings. 
Initiatives promoting MSME governance  
The Basel Institute182 provides anti-corruption collective action, compliance and bribery prevention guidance services to 
MSMEs through the new Business Integrity Consultancy Service, part of the UK government’s Business Integrity Initiative. 
MSMEs that meet the eligibility criteria can submit an application to receive subsidized anti-corruption guidance services 
in three areas – (i) anti-corruption compliance, (ii) corruption and bribery prevention and (iii) anti -corruption Collective 
Action. Depending on their size, companies that receive services will be asked to pay only 20 or 40 percent of the total 
cost of the service.  
The Integrity App183 is an innovative tool to support MSMEs in sustainability compliance.  It was launched by the Allia nce 
for Integrity at the beginning of 2017 and provides a one-stop-shop online platform where companies can track their levels 
of compliance based on a questionnaire developed in line with international standards and receive an immediate status 
report and recommendations on how to improve. Further, the platform is a reliable source of information, provides tools, 
workshops, and webinars and even offers consultations and implementation support.