--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C55
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 34
Word Range: 15288 - 15639
Word Count: 352
--------------------

[Page 34]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
34 
ups need to be supported with capacity building to tap the new business opportunities stemming from 
contributing to the SDGs.  
 
Small businesses as restoration enterprises 
 
Better Globe Forestry173 is a Kenyan company that works with smallholder farmers to plant Melia volkensii trees, a native 
species known for its resilience to drought. Providing farmers with a range of resources to plant the trees on their lands, 
from seedlings and water supplies to training and microfinance, Better Globe intends to purchase the trees from farmers 
once they are mature, harvesting them and exporting them as high -quality timber. By establishing the trees on semi -arid 
lands with more than a million planted to  date, the company helps retain water and improve soil quality, transforming 
dusty farmlands into oases of grass and vegetation. 
Greenprint Partners,174 (formerly known as Fresh Coast Capital), exemplifies the potential of restoration companies to 
deliver financial, environmental and social returns. As a project developer, Greenprint partners with cities throughout the 
U.S. Midwest to restore and revitalize underserved urban communities through the transformative power of nature. By 
paying Greenprint to install large-scale green infrastructure such as native plants and trees, cities can naturally manage 
stormwater runoff while improving soil and air quality. These projects can save cities millions in infrastructure costs while 
creating restoration jobs and improving property values, delivering triple-win scenarios for the company, the city and the 
environment. 
Ecosia175 is an online search engine that displays ads next to its search results. Ecosia earns revenue every time a user 
clicks on one of the ads. At leas t 80 percent of its profits are invested into tree -planting programmes in Burkina Faso, 
Madagascar, Peru, Indonesia and Tanzania. While Ecosia’s business model does not directly benefit from trees, its 
customer value proposition is intimately linked to res toring degraded land. Its platform enables users to see how many 
trees have been planted based on individual online activity. With 9 million trees planted to date, Ecosia proves that 
business models that indirectly promote restoration can be effective at creating large-scale impact.