--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C40
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 26
Word Range: 11166 - 11415
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 26]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
26 
MSMEs solving urban challenges    
 
Mobility. Bla Bla Car is a company which has scaled ride sharing between cities across Europe, allowing 1 million tons of 
CO2 emissions to be avoided in just two years. 126 Its website and mobile app connect drivers and passengers willing to 
travel together between cities and share the cost of the journey. The platform has 70 million users in 2019 and is available 
in 22 countries. Other similar start -ups are: Bynd, which off ers commuting car sharing in traffic -bound Sao Paolo, and 
Flattire, a bike-fixing platform from bike-friendly Amsterdam.127 
Housing. ¡Échale! a tu Casa is a social enterprise based in Mexico that co -designs homes with low income families and 
sets up housing committees.128 It sees building communities as a part of the housing solution. It also buys over 60 percent 
of building materials locally and provides employment to local construction workers. Under iÉchale!’s assisted self-building 
programme, participants receive the materials and technical training necessary to build a small house in a month, with 
supervision from a certified architect. The resulting homes, made from ¡Échale!’s patented compressed earth blocks, are 
designed for minimal energy and water use,  making them eco -friendly as well as cheap to run. Green features include 
solar water heaters, wood saving stoves and systems to harvest rainwater. ¡Échale! is exporting its technology to Belize, 
Egypt, Haiti, Nicaragua and the UAE, and is developing a soc ial franchise model to allow others to replicate its success. 
Already, 30,000 houses have been built and over 150,000 homes improved in Mexico alone using its model. PopUp Immo 
is a start up in Hong Kong that offers a marketplace dedicated to short-term commercial real estate rental.129 The company 
aims at making rentals of short-term commercial spaces as easy as making bookings on Airbnb. The platform provides a 
flexible and global platform for brands looking for spaces to renew their customers’ experiences. Property owners reduce 
their vacancy rates and increase their rental yields. 
Waste management. Daily Dump is dedicated to empowering households, individuals and urban communities across India 
to convert their organic waste to high quality compost.130 Indian cities generate 120,000 tonnes of waste a day and over 
50 percent is wet/organic waste. Municipalities face huge challenges in handling this waste. Daily Dump started in 2006 
with a core team of 3 members and 2 support members and potters who made prototy pes. They designed a range of 
composting solutions, which are operated conveniently and hygienically at household level and are increasingly being used 
by offices. It has prevented 4400 kg of waste from reaching land dumps. Once the organic waste productio n reaches a 
certain volume, they are transported to villages to support organic farming.