--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 6
Word Range: 1727 - 2085
Word Count: 359
--------------------

[Page 6]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
6 
purchasing power, constituting a $5 trillion global consumer market. 12 They offer a market that is increasingly 
being connect ed by mobile phones. The scale of the market and mobile phone penetration provides 
opportunities for market -based solutions in delivering services that will lift people out of poverty. There are 
encouraging entrepreneurial ventures, for example, providing affordable water filters or home treatment systems 
so that households can purify water for themselves, offering low -cost solar-powered lighting systems that can 
provide a few hours of light in the evening, or introducing efficient, multi -fuel cook stoves. Many of these 
initiatives apply micro-franchising.  
 
Small businesses help alleviate poverty through micro-franchising 
 
Micro-franchising uses elements of traditional franchising and targets small businesses. It is broadly defined as small 
businesses that can easily be replicated by following proven marketing and operational concepts. The study ‘Poverty 
Alleviation as a Business’ documented micro -franchising examples where profitable supply chains have been created 
through small businesses d elivering useful products or services that are directly alleviating poverty. Some of these 
examples are:13  
Village Farm and Forestry programme. A female entrepreneur in Bangladesh runs a village farm and forestry programme 
as a social insurance scheme. She runs one of the 2500 private nurseries that deliver almost 100 million tree saplings 
every year. Trees have become a profitable crop for 650,000 families; they serve as an asset as they can be sold at any 
point. The tree can be chopped in case of an emergency (e.g. a child‘s sickness).  
The treadle pump. Over 1 million pumps have been sold to small and marginal farmers. On half an acre, they can grow 
more vegetables or other crops and make an average additional income of $ 100 per year. Around 10,000 micro -
enterprises supply, sell and install the pumps in Bangladesh, India and Nepal.  
Micro–concrete roofing tiles. Over 2,000 workshops operate in more than 35 countries; they produce 150,000 roofs per 
year. The technology is supported by an international network. The cost-effective building materials can have a big scope 
for small enterprises and contribute to closing the housing gap.