--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 17 to Page 19
Word Range: 6377 - 7891
Word Count: 1,515
--------------------

[Page 17]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
17 
Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy for all 
 
This goal has five targets. They focus on ensuring energy access for all, promoting 
renewable energy, improving energy efficiency and strengthening international cooperation 
to promote clean energy research and technology and energy infrastructure.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 7? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for becoming more energy efficient.  
While individual small businesses have low environmental 
footprints, their combined impact can exceed th at of large 
businesses. MSMEs may produce more pollution than big 
businesses because of their informal nature and the resulting 
lack of regulations and supervision. 67 Studies have estimate d 
that these businesses can contribute up to 60 -70 percent of 
pollution levels in developing economies. 68  Encouraging 
MSMEs to adopt green technology and other environmentally -
friendly strategies are therefore essential to the progress on 
Goal 7. A study in India showed that an estimated 26 million 
MSME enterprises account for about 45 percent of India’s 
industrial production and 40 percent of exports; out of 400 
manufacturing clusters, nearly half comprise energy intensive sectors (metallurgy ceramics, glass, textiles, 
etc.).69 According to the study, a majority of the MSME clusters use conventional and ineffici ent technologies. 
The total energy saving potential of MSMEs in 36 clusters was identified as about 16 percent of their total energy 
consumption. The study noted that although the importance of energy efficiency was recognized by most MSMEs, 
the uptake of energy efficient measures remains low and is attributable to non -availability of technologies, lack 
of local service providers, poor technical capacities of MSMEs, and limited access to credit. 70 
MSMEs can be incentivized by larger enterprises to integrate sustainable practices in their operations . 71 
Multinational enterprises  can lead by exa mple through their market power  in demonstrating the value of  
‘sustainability premium’, i.e. higher price for a p roduct produced in a sustainable manner . They can encourage 
smaller firms in their supply chains to focus on sustainability standards. They can further benefit from investing 
in MSMEs to get access to new markets. The French multinational energy company ENGIE, for example, has set 
up a corporate impact venture fund that invests in social enterprises that aim to provide sustainable energy 
access for vulnerable populations around the world . 72  Through these investments, ENGIE offers financ ial 
resources to MSMEs in the energy sector. ENGIE also gains access to new business opportunities through 
investing in social enterprises.  
MSME finance can contribute to Goal 7. A report by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network ( CDKN) 
estimates that the credit gap for MSMEs providing climate technologies is approximately US  $4-5 billion across 
developing countries. It further explains that access to climate finance is a challenge for MSMEs because of a 
lack of awareness, lack of an enabling environment and the limited availability of financial products for greening 
activities and climate technology. 73 The Green Climate Fund  (GCF) recognizes the importance of including 
MSMEs for climate action and dedicated an MSME programme for US $200 million under th e Private Sector 
Facility. 74  GCF is supporting MSME projects on energy efficient approaches . Other initiatives include the

[Page 18]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
18 
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP), an NGO that invests funds in MSMEs and ventures 
that have strong potential to generate clean energy market growth. 75 The ResponsAbility Energy Access Fund is 
a revolving fund that provides working capital loans and longer-term debt to MSMEs producing and distributing 
modern energy products.76  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal .  
They can: 
▪ Pursue energy efficient certifications.77 
▪ Prioritize energy efficiency across all operations, including preserving light, heating, cooling.78 
▪ Invest in skills development so that qualified personnel can enable clean technology adoption.  
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. Tackling energy demand and energy 
sources have a potential business value in 2030 of over US $4.3 trillion in current prices. 80 There is a critical 
opportunity for renewable generators and equipment manufacturers. The Int ernational Renewable Energy 
Agency’s (IRENA) forecasts that, including hydropower, renewables share of power generation worldwide could 
increase to 45 percent by 2030, from around 23 percent in 2014. 81 Annual global investment in solar PV has 
already reached between US $100 billion and US $150 billion over the past five years. These trends present 
business opportunities for MSMEs. 82 As highlighted earlier, MSMEs are considered to be well placed in the  
distribution, installation, operations and maintenance of technology applications. Existing MSMEs and start-ups 
need to be supported to tap these opportunities in renewable energy which in turn will help achieve the goal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MSMEs deliver clean energy   
 
Simpa Networks. Simpa Networks provides a basic, portable solar home system in an off -grid utilities model to base of 
the pyramid customers in India.79 The system includes a low-cost meter connected to a cloud-based software that enables 
Simpa to track customer usage. Customers purchase the system with an initial down payment and then select how much 
energy credit to purchase. A portion of this payment covers the repayment cost of the system, while the rest goes to Simpa 
as profit and to cover operational costs. Once fully paid (typically within two to three years), the system unlocks 
permanently and continues to produce electricity for the customer for free. Simpa has installed over 15,000 solar home 
systems in India and is rapidly growing.

[Page 19]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
19 
Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all  
 
This goal has 12 targets. They cover a range of areas, including accelerating national 
economic growth, promotion of decent work, entrepreneurship, financial inclusion and 
global cooperation initiatives such as Aid for Trade, and a global strategy on youth 
employment.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 8? 
 
MSMEs contribute to GDP and economic growth. Among Organisation for 
Economic Co -operation and Development ( OECD) countries, MSMEs are the 
predominant form of enterprise and are major contributors to economic growth, 
generating between 50 percent and 60 percent of value added , on average.83 In 
emerging economies, MSMEs contribute up to 33 percent of GDP. When taking 
the contribution of informal businesses into account, MSMEs contribute to more 
than half of GDP in most countries irrespective of income levels.84 
MSMEs create jobs and have the potential for promoting decent work and 
entrepreneurship. MSMEs directly relate to SDG Target 8.3.85 As discussed under 
Goal 1, MSMEs contribute u p to 45 percent of total employment in emerging 
market economies.  In recent decades, employment generated by MSMEs has 
steadily increased at the global level. Over 2003 -16, across 132 countries, the 
number of total full -time employees in MSMEs has nearly doubled, from 79 
million to 156 million. 86 There is evidence to suggest that MSMEs contribute up 
to 90 percent of employment in thirteen Sub-Sahara African countries .87 The presence of MSMEs is typically 
concentrated in low -skilled and labo ur-intensive sectors , such as light manufacturing and the service sector.  
Nonetheless, jobs provided by MSMEs may have lower salaries and may be more insecure than those of larger 
enterprises. Because of informality, it is also difficult to ensure jobs provided by informal MSMEs are fully covered 
by a social protection network.  Therefore, MSMEs, while having a large share of employment, may not offer 
decent work opportunities as per ILO standards. Nonetheless, when better supported, they have the potential to 
promote decent work standards and decent job opportunities. The formalization and development of 
entrepreneurship as envisaged in this goal will require tackling various challenges MSMEs face, including 
creating more enabling policy and regulatory frameworks, increasing access to finance and market information, 
capacity building of MSMEs and increasing access to good infrastructure required for MSME operations. 88 
MSMEs finance is a target for Goal 8. Target 9.3 under Goal 9 identifies the importance of access to financial 
services.89 This Target points to the importance of providing sufficient financial resources to MSMEs, but it also 
includes the idea of strengthening the ability of MSMEs to access markets and expand their businesses through 
value chains, thus going beyond the domain of pure credit. The current credit gap is estimated at US $1.2 trillion 
for formal MS MEs, and US $6 trillion for informal MSMEs around the world. 90 About 70 percent of MSMEs in 
emerging economies countries lack access to credit. 91 With limited assets to use as collateral, formal and 
informal MSMEs are often perceived by commercial financing institutions as high-risk borrowers, which means 
higher costs in terms of fees and interest rates incurred. In recent years, many national governments and 
international organizations have tried to promote grant facilities, preferential rates and loan guara ntee 
programmes to bridge the gap. Well-managed schemes need to provide support and capacity building to ensure 
small business owners only take onboard acceptable amounts of risk and avoid bad debts. There continues to