--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C28
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 19
Word Range: 7942 - 8311
Word Count: 370
--------------------

[Page 19]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
19 
Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all  
 
This goal has 12 targets. They cover a range of areas, including accelerating national 
economic growth, promotion of decent work, entrepreneurship, financial inclusion and 
global cooperation initiatives such as Aid for Trade, and a global strategy on youth 
employment.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 8? 
 
MSMEs contribute to GDP and economic growth. Among Organisation for 
Economic Co -operation and Development ( OECD) countries, MSMEs are the 
predominant form of enterprise and are major contributors to economic growth, 
generating between 50 percent and 60 percent of value added , on average.83 In 
emerging economies, MSMEs contribute up to 33 percent of GDP. When taking 
the contribution of informal businesses into account, MSMEs contribute to more 
than half of GDP in most countries irrespective of income levels.84 
MSMEs create jobs and have the potential for promoting decent work and 
entrepreneurship. MSMEs directly relate to SDG Target 8.3.85 As discussed under 
Goal 1, MSMEs contribute u p to 45 percent of total employment in emerging 
market economies.  In recent decades, employment generated by MSMEs has 
steadily increased at the global level. Over 2003 -16, across 132 countries, the 
number of total full -time employees in MSMEs has nearly doubled, from 79 
million to 156 million. 86 There is evidence to suggest that MSMEs contribute up 
to 90 percent of employment in thirteen Sub-Sahara African countries .87 The presence of MSMEs is typically 
concentrated in low -skilled and labo ur-intensive sectors , such as light manufacturing and the service sector.  
Nonetheless, jobs provided by MSMEs may have lower salaries and may be more insecure than those of larger 
enterprises. Because of informality, it is also difficult to ensure jobs provided by informal MSMEs are fully covered 
by a social protection network.  Therefore, MSMEs, while having a large share of employment, may not offer 
decent work opportunities as per ILO standards. Nonetheless, when better supported, they have the potential to 
promote decent work standards and decent job opportunities. The formalization and development of 
entrepreneurship as envisaged in this goal will require tackling various challenges MSMEs face, including 
creating more enabling policy and regulatory frameworks, increasing access to finance and market information, 
capacity building of MSMEs and increasing access to good infrastructure required for MSME operations. 88 
MSMEs finance is a target for Goal 8. Target 9.3 under Goal 9 identifies the importance of access to financial 
services.89 This Target points to the importance of providing sufficient financial resources to MSMEs, but it also 
includes the idea of strengthening the ability of MSMEs to access markets and expand their businesses through 
value chains, thus going beyond the domain of pure credit. The current credit gap is estimated at US $1.2 trillion 
for formal MS MEs, and US $6 trillion for informal MSMEs around the world. 90 About 70 percent of MSMEs in 
emerging economies countries lack access to credit. 91 With limited assets to use as collateral, formal and 
informal MSMEs are often perceived by commercial financing institutions as high-risk borrowers, which means 
higher costs in terms of fees and interest rates incurred. In recent years, many national governments and 
international organizations have tried to promote grant facilities, preferential rates and loan guara ntee 
programmes to bridge the gap. Well-managed schemes need to provide support and capacity building to ensure 
small business owners only take onboard acceptable amounts of risk and avoid bad debts. There continues to