--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 7
Word Range: 2336 - 2720
Word Count: 385
--------------------

[Page 7]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
7 
Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture  
 
This goal has seven targets. The goal focuses on ending hunger, eliminating all forms of 
malnutrition, increasing productivity of farmers, particularly that of small-scale producers and 
sustainability in food production/agriculture sector. Other targets focus on international 
cooperation to promote research, to address global trade of agricultural goods and food 
prices that threaten food security. 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 2? 
 
Smallholder farmers and agricultural -focused MSMEs directly contribute to the goal. 
MSMEs directly link to SDG Target 2.3 and promote interventions to develop capacity of 
small-scale farmers and agriculture -focused MSMEs. 14 A large share  of farmers in the 
developing world are small-scale producers. The percentage of small-scale food producers 
for countries with available data in Africa, Asia and Latin America ranges from about 40 
to about 85 percent. In Nepal, the proportion of small-scale food producers is 43 percent, 
whereas in Armenia and Nicaragua it is about 85 percent. 15 In most other countries, the 
proportion of small-scale food producers is between 50 to 70 percent. 16 The capacity of 
small-scale producers needs strengthening because their incomes and productivity are 
systematically lower than those of large food producers. Incomes of small-scale producers 
range from a few hundred US dollars per year in countries such as Kenya, Tanzania,  
Uganda and Ethiopia, to over US $3, 000 per year in countries such as Vietnam, Iraq and 
Mongolia.17 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal .  MSMEs can 
support and encourage small -scale farming, ensure sourcing from local entities and small-scale producers for 
office purposes as much as possible and d emonstrate transparency in the agricultural supply chain  particularly 
when sourcing. 18 Malnutrition costs the global economy as much as five percent of glob al GDP in loss of 
productivity and direct healthcare spending.19 Given that MSMEs tend to be labour-intensive, improved nutrition 
status can help produce a healthy workforce and contribute to the improved productivity of MSMEs. MSMEs can 
therefore be incent ivised to conduct nutrition education and awareness programmes to improve household 
dietary habits. These initiatives can promote consumption of food from small-scale producers at the same time. 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve  the SDGs. Climate-smart agricultural 
approaches can help to achieve several aspects of the goal, including the sustainability of the agricultural value 
chain, and at the same time increasing productivity of farmers . In India and Rwanda, food waste reducin g 
technologies minimise post -harvest losses  and have resulted in  reduced losses by over 60 percent – and 
increased smallholder farmers’ incomes by more than 30 percent. 20 The report of the Business & Sustainable 
Development Commission estimates that address ing challenges in the food and agriculture sector in line with 
the SDGs have a potential value in 2030 of US  $1.8 trillion in current prices. 21 This includes a range of areas 
such as reducing food waste, digital services for the agriculture sector, farming technology, micro -irrigation, 
forest ecosystems and restoring degraded land. Areas for innovation and new business solutions identified by 
the Agri-Food Chain Coalition of Europe include new plant breeding methods and products, animal diets and 
specialty feed ingredients, which can help reduce the environmental footprint of animal farming, agricultural 
technologies, including genetically -modified organisms that help develop new seeds, manufacturing of 
agricultural machinery that reduces carbon emissions, an d handling plants and fertilizers through safety 
standards management of agricultural waste and tools to improve fertilizer use. 22 While MSMEs are already