--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 10 to Page 11
Word Range: 3568 - 3817
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
10 
e-Health MSMEs in Africa  
 
E-health includes a range of products and services that integrate technology to deliver healthcare and are lucrative for 
MSMEs. Emerging technology products include wearable patches that can diagnose heart conditions, sensors that monitor 
asthma medication intake and detect poor air quality, and glucose monitors that send diabetics’ data straight to 
smartphones. In 2017, e-health represented one third of African start-ups.31 Select e-health MSME examples are:  
Helium Health 32 is a small company that originated from Nigeria, which has developed a software system for health 
records and hospital management. It supports hospitals and clinics in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, with a user-friendly 
electronic health record and hospital management system that helps client hospitals to streamline their practices, reduce 
waste and increase their standards of care. 
Peek Vision33 is a Kenyan company that saw a market opportunity in the bulky, fragile and expensive equipment used for 
eye examinations. The firm’s mobile application and US $5 clip allows anyone with a smartphone to turn their handset 
into a diagnostic tool with the ophthalmological accuracy of a US $25,000 camera, able to spot conditions from cataracts 
to glaucoma. 
Kasha is an online store that provides healthcare products to women in Africa. They include hard-to-get products, such as 
emergency contraceptives and condoms with a guaranteed traceability.34

[Page 11]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
11 
Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and 
promote lifelong learning opportunities for all  
 
The goal has 10 targets, which focus on provision of universal and equitable primary and 
secondary education, increasing access to early childhood education (ECE) and vocational 
and tertiary education, and achieving literacy and numeracy. The targets emphasize 
sustainable education and upgrading education facilities with gender-sensitive and disability-
friendly features. Other targets include increasing global cooperation to improve learning 
environments, scholarships, training opportunities and skill development of educators.    
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 4? 
 
MSMEs as providers of technical and vocational 
education. MSMEs, through work-based learning 
programmes (e.g. apprenticeship, career 
education and internship), could become 
informal educational service providers, and 
share technical and competency skills required 
by employers. Contributions of MSMEs to 
Technical and Vocational Education and Training 
(TVET) programmes have been noted in different 
countries in addressing the skill gaps and 
promoting lifelong learning. More efforts would 
still be needed to collect evidence on 
contributions of MSMEs to expanding access to 
formal and informal education services.  
MSMEs as complementary formal education providers. In many developing countries, p ublic schools alone are 
insufficient to ensure the inclusiveness of education services needed to reach the targets included in SDG 4. In 
many countries, MSMEs conducting business in the education sector c ould provide complementary education 
services, expanding the access to educational services to  the general public. 35 For example, in a recent study 
conducted by the Center for Education Innovations tracks, the growth of low-cost private schools had more than 
doubled in India since 1993, while in Kenya, low cost private school enrolment has tripled since 1997 , which 
has contributed to expanding access to educational services . MSMEs could contribute to achieving SDG 4 by 
expanding inclusive access to education services and improving skills of youth and women for obtaining decent 
jobs.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Create programmes (e.g., apprentice, career education, internships, work-based learning 
programmes, etc.) that give students earlier access to the corporate environment. 36 
▪ Provide employees with continuous learning opportunities to improve their skills for their current 
and future employment.37 
▪ Improve awareness of employees on the importance of ECE, support access of employees to 
quality childcare, mental stimulation and learning through play. 38