--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C19
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 5314 - 5692
Word Count: 379
--------------------

[Page 14]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
14 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal. Similar 
to large companies, MSMEs can be encouraged to adopt gender inclusive policies within their business practice 
and in their value chains. This includes ensuring equal pay and benefits for work of equal value, zero -tolerance 
towards all forms of violence at work, supporting women with flexible work arrangements, providing child and 
dependent care support, promoting women in managem ent positions and increasing gender balance in the 
teams.51 This could be achieved by adopting the Women’s Empowerment Principles, which are being promoted 
by UN Women and UN Global Compact for firms of all sizes in all sectors.52 Many other tools exist that businesses, 
including MSMEs, can use to promote gender inclusivity in their value chains. MSME entrepreneurs need to be 
informed and trained on adopting these tools to change business practices.   
 
Gender balance in business promotes sustainability  
Women employees and women leaders in business prioritize sustainability. A study by Net Impact found that 60 percent 
of employed women said it was very important to work for a company that prioritises social and environmental 
responsibility, compared to 38 percent of men.53 Evidence also shows that companies with more women on their boards 
are more likely to invest in renewable power generation, low-carbon products, and energy efficiency.54  
Women-owned enterprises and women leaders are core to changing business practice and culture towards sustainability.  
An example is Green Strategy.55  Anna Brismar is the founder and owner of Green Strategy, a consultancy firm specialized 
in circularity and sustainability issues of the fashion, apparel and textile industries on a global scale. She is the owner and 
developer of the online platform Circularfashion.com, which is the world’s first platform dedicated exclusively to circularity 
issues in the fashion, apparel and textile industries. She is also the founder and head of the Circular Fashion Network, an 
international network of professionals working with circularity and sustainability issues in the fashion and textile 
industries.56 Principles of design being promoted in the company include durability and longevity, use of nontoxic and 
biodegradable materials, and ethical attitudes towards society and environment. They are also promoting recycling 
through the development of effective and safe technologies.