--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C35
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 23 to Page 24
Word Range: 9844 - 10093
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 23]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
23 
Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries 
 
This goal has 10 targets, which primarily focus on increasing incomes for low income earning 
groups, ending discrimination, promoting social, economic and political inclusion, promoting 
better wage and social protection policies, facilitating safe migration and reducing remittance 
fees, monitoring regulation of global financial markets, and increasing the voice of and 
assistance to least developed countries (LDCs).  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 10? 
 
MSMEs promote economic inclusion and have the potential to regenerate under-served geographic areas. Small 
businesses serve geographic locations, populations and markets that do not have enough scale to attract larger 
firms. Research has shown that  smaller businesses tend to spend more of the money they make from a local 
area w ithin that area , demonstrating their 
potential to regenerate economically 
disadvantaged localities. A research found that 
in the UK,  for every £1 a local authority spent 
with an MSME, 63p was re -spent in the local 
area compared to 40p for every £1 spent with a 
large business.108 
MSMEs provide incomes to low income and 
marginalized groups. MSMEs tend to be labour -
intensive; they employ many segments of the 
population, including low -skilled and less -
educated people, as well as rural and urban poor 
(see Goal 1). MSMEs also offer employment and 
entrepreneurship opportunities for young 
people, women and other disadvantaged 
groups, including migrants, ethnic minorities and the disabled. MSMEs are  therefore crucial in increasing 
incomes for the bottom 40 percent of the world’s population.  
Increasing productivity of MSMEs can help bridge wage inequality.  OECD work on productivity shows that, in 
some countries, the gap in productivity between MSMEs and large firms increased in the aftermath of the 2007-
08 global crisis.109 While for small and medium-sized enterprises there has been a reversal in this trend during 
the recovery, the larger gap has become persistent for micro -firms. This gap is also an important dr iver of the 
observed rise in inequality, including wage inequality, in many countries. 110 In many emerging and developing 
economies, the productivity gap between bigger firms and MSMEs and the resulting income gaps are especially 
large, due in particular to a disproportionate concentration of employment in micro and small firms, often 
informal ones. Investing in MSME development and increasing their competitiveness and productivity is key to 
reducing wage inequalities.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Adopt equal remuneration policies for men and women employees of the same competency. 
Ensure compliance with the minimum wage policies and exclude preferences based on gender, 
race, religion and other discriminatory grounds.

[Page 24]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
24 
▪ Provide social protection mechanisms to employees, including the payment for life, accident and 
unemployment insurance, contributing to social security of employees and ensuring paid leave in 
accordance with legal requirements. 
▪ Organize skills training and career coaching opportunities for employees from marginalized and 
vulnerable population groups.  
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. Small businesses 
can represent an effective tool to address societal needs through the market. Social enterprises bring innovative 
solutions to the problems of poverty and fill gaps in service delivery. In many countries, social enterprises are an 
increasing phenomenon, part icularly in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. For instance, in France, in 
2014, social enterprises contributed to 10 percent of the GDP. 111 In Belgium, over 2008 -14, employment in 
social enterprises increased by 12 percent and accounted, in 2015,  for 17 percent of total private 
employment.112 In the UK, in 2015, 41 percent of social enterprises had created jobs compared to 22 percent 
of MSMEs.113 Companies pursuing social impact as a part of their core business strategies are seeing increased 
access t o financing in a diversity of forms: philanthropic grants and impact investments, partial credit 
guarantees, and payment for performance. The socially-responsible investing industry exceeded US $6 trillion in 
the United States alone in 2014 and stands at U S $21.4 trillion globally. 114 MSMEs should be connected to 
these facilities to boost social enterprises and socially-responsible business operations.  
 
MSMEs accelerating inclusivity   
 
Dignity kitchen115 is a social enterprise that runs Singapore's first and only community food court. It is operated by people 
with disabilities and the socially disadvantaged. The business provides educational and employment opportunities in the 
food services industry to vu lnerable people of all walks of life, including those with physical, intellectual and mental 
disabilities, ex-offenders, at-risk youth, victims of domestic violence, cancer and stroke survivors. Dignity Kitchen offers 
bespoke cashier training to the hearing- and visually-impaired – the cashier machines have Braille markings and stickers 
attached to them and provides height-adjustable countertops to create a more enabling work environment for wheelchair-
bound ‘hawkerpreneurs’.  
MicroEnsure 116  offers affordable  insurance to previously unreachable groups via a model inspired by the popular 
computer game Angry Birds. The company saw an opportunity in providing health, life and disability insurance cover for 
low-income groups in Asia and Africa. These groups repres ent a US $40 billion market opportunity for insurance 
companies. But as they face extensive risks and can only afford tiny premiums, they tend to get overlooked. For instance, 
in Africa, less than three percent of the population has health insurance. Working with local telecoms companies and big 
insurance providers, MicroEnsure created an Angry Birds model: free, but with paid -for add-ons. It provides free basic 
insurance in exchange for improved consumer loyalty to local telecoms companies, with the option  for consumers to buy 
more extensive coverage once they understand the value of being insured. In effect, MicroEnsure extended its market by 
finding ways to bring affordable insurance to previously unreachable groups.