--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C48
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 29
Word Range: 13278 - 13621
Word Count: 344
--------------------

[Page 29]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
29 
Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its 
impacts  
 
This goal has five targets. They promote adaptation against impacts of climate change, 
strengthening planning to integrate climate risks at various levels, increasing awareness of 
stakeholders on climate risks and impacts, and building global cooperation to support 
climate action and build capacity of countries to address climate issues.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 13? 
 
MSMEs have the potential to make vulnerable populations and households climate resilient. Given that MSMEs 
create employment and entrepreneurship for a large proportion of the population in developing countries, 
MSMEs can enhance capacities of households through stable and diversified incomes to help withstand impacts 
of climate-induced shocks and stressors.   
MSMEs are heavy energy users and have the potential to contribute to mitigation.  
As highlighted under Goal 7, many MSMEs operate in energy-intensive sectors and 
have the potential to contribute to mitigation. An estimate of climate impact of 
MSMEs shows that the sectors with the largest volumes of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions were found in three sectors for whi ch data were available - agriculture, 
hunting, forestry and fishing ; manufacturing and e lectricity; gas and water 
supply. 144 The number of MSMEs active in these sectors were 88 million, 49 
million and 1 million, respectively. If informal enterprises were added, the numbers 
were even higher. 145 This demonstrates the scale of MSMEs and the role MSMEs 
can play in GHG mitigation. Mitigation activities of MSMEs include reducing energy 
use by supporting a switch to energy efficient approaches for lighting, buildings,  
and refrigeration; reducing emissions by supporting a switch to renewable energy 
sources; or improving water conservation by supporting behavioural change 
towards pollution and water use.146 
MSMEs can contribute to adaptation of economic activities/sectors.  MSME-dominant sectors such as 
agriculture, manufacturing and services are vulnerable to climate-induced events such as floods, droughts, and 
sea level rise. A discussion paper on metalworking enterprises in India shows direct impacts on their buildings, 
manufacturing processes and infrastructure from higher frequency of hot days or heavy rainfall and indirect 
impacts on their supply chains and markets, including rising energy and material prices or change of demand in 
response to climate change effects. 147 Based on a climate change sensitivity assessment, an analysis shows 
that climate change plays a catalytic role speeding up and intensifying already existing challenges for MSMEs in 
India, including resource strain and infrastructural problems. MSMEs’ vulner ability to climate change is 
compounded by the fact that many operate outside the formal sector. These businesses will have limited access 
to public social safety nets, formal finance channels, and post-disaster insurance, making it difficult for them to 
recover from the impact of  extreme weather events.  Addressing capacities of MSMEs is key to strengthening 
adaptive capacity of key economic sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, food processing, tourism, etc.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Conduct a simple energy audit and make changes like adoption to energy-efficient LED lighting.148 
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and s upply chain.149 
▪ Expand sustainable forest management through responsible sourcing practices .150