--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C26
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 18
Word Range: 7303 - 7691
Word Count: 389
--------------------

[Page 18]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
18 
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (REEEP), an NGO that invests funds in MSMEs and ventures 
that have strong potential to generate clean energy market growth. 75 The ResponsAbility Energy Access Fund is 
a revolving fund that provides working capital loans and longer-term debt to MSMEs producing and distributing 
modern energy products.76  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal .  
They can: 
▪ Pursue energy efficient certifications.77 
▪ Prioritize energy efficiency across all operations, including preserving light, heating, cooling.78 
▪ Invest in skills development so that qualified personnel can enable clean technology adoption.  
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. Tackling energy demand and energy 
sources have a potential business value in 2030 of over US $4.3 trillion in current prices. 80 There is a critical 
opportunity for renewable generators and equipment manufacturers. The Int ernational Renewable Energy 
Agency’s (IRENA) forecasts that, including hydropower, renewables share of power generation worldwide could 
increase to 45 percent by 2030, from around 23 percent in 2014. 81 Annual global investment in solar PV has 
already reached between US $100 billion and US $150 billion over the past five years. These trends present 
business opportunities for MSMEs. 82 As highlighted earlier, MSMEs are considered to be well placed in the  
distribution, installation, operations and maintenance of technology applications. Existing MSMEs and start-ups 
need to be supported to tap these opportunities in renewable energy which in turn will help achieve the goal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MSMEs deliver clean energy   
 
Simpa Networks. Simpa Networks provides a basic, portable solar home system in an off -grid utilities model to base of 
the pyramid customers in India.79 The system includes a low-cost meter connected to a cloud-based software that enables 
Simpa to track customer usage. Customers purchase the system with an initial down payment and then select how much 
energy credit to purchase. A portion of this payment covers the repayment cost of the system, while the rest goes to Simpa 
as profit and to cover operational costs. Once fully paid (typically within two to three years), the system unlocks 
permanently and continues to produce electricity for the customer for free. Simpa has installed over 15,000 solar home 
systems in India and is rapidly growing.