--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 20 to Page 23
Word Range: 7892 - 9513
Word Count: 1,622
--------------------

[Page 20]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
20 
be great interest and new development s in venture capital, and other innovative and alternative financing for 
MSMEs.92 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal . They 
can offer apprenticeship opportunities 93 and foster an entrepre neurial culture and invest in/mentor young 
entrepreneurs. MSMEs could also instil a firm policy against unfair hiring and promote decent work standards.  
 
Diversifying MSME lending modalities and financial products 
 
Idepro94 in Bolivia is a cooperative that has a specific “Procadenas” lending product aimed at providing financing across 
the value chain of specific sectors and connecting various businesses along this chain with one another. Starting in 
various agro-forestry products, such as qu inoa, grapes, castañas and forestry products, Idepro has now also expanded 
its value chain financing to textiles, transport and construction. 
The Regional MSME Investment Fund for Sub -Saharan Africa 95 is a debt fund with a focus on financing microfinance 
institutions, local commercial banks and other financial institutions that serve MSMEs. The fund has disbursed US $150 
million to 42 lending institutions and to over 195,000 micro clients in 17 countries. 
The ICICI Bank MSME programme in India96 provides non-traditional financial services to MSMEs. To evaluate credit risk, 
the programme uses market segmentation and a “360 degree” approach. Credit scorecards (based on industries, 
linkages or market segments), MSME value analyses, relationship manager site visits and personal references are used 
to evaluate the credit worthiness of each MSME. ICICI has an MSME client base of almost 1 million enterprises.

[Page 21]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
21 
Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 
 
This goal has 9 targets, which primarily cover three areas, including provision of resilient 
infrastructure, industrialisation including development of small -scale industrial enterprises, 
and promotion of research and innovation.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 9? 
 
Small-scale industrial enterprises are directly relevant to the goal. SDG Target 9.3 focuses on increasing the role 
and capacity of small -scale industrial enterprises. 97 UNIDO reports that data on this target is limited from 
countries. Available data shows that the manufacturing value added of small -scale enterprises reveals high 
variability across developing countries. While Albania reported that 21 percent of manufacturing was produced 
by small -scale industries, the share was 
negligible in Ecuador at 0.4 percent. 98 
However the report notes that despite the 
small contribution to total industrial output, the 
role of small -scale enterprises in job creation, 
especially in developing countries, is 
significant in terms of their high ab sorption of 
labour from traditional sectors, such as 
agriculture or fishery. In OECD countries, 
MSMEs account for about 60  percent of jobs 
in the manufacturing sector and 75 percent in 
services, generating between 50  percent and 
60 percent of value added, on average.99  
MSME finance for small scale industrial 
enterprises will contribute to the goal. Although 
small-scale enterprises have a key role in 
industrial development in developing 
countries, one of the biggest challenges they 
face is access to financia l services. Financial access is crucial for small -scale industries to grow as it allows 
entrepreneurs to innovate, improve efficiency, expand to new markets and create new job opportunities.  The 
World Bank Enterprise Surveys for the period 2015 to 2017 rep orted that the highest shares of small -scale 
industries with a loan or line of credit in manufacturing are found in the Solomon Islands (64 percent), Nicaragua 
(59 percent) and Benin (52 percent).100 By contrast, some countries such as Laos (6.7 percent), Zimbabwe (5.7 
percent) and Egypt (4.3 percent) had very low shares. 101  
MSMEs promote innovation. While not all MSMEs are innovative, new and small firms are often the driving force 
behind the  innovations that are important for economic growth, since they can work outside of  dominant 
paradigms, exploit technological or commercial opportunities that have been neglected by more  established 
companies or enable the commercialisation of knowledge that would otherwis e remain uncommercialised .102 
For instance,  MSMEs account for about 20  percent of patents, which is one measure of innovation, in 
biotechnology-related fields in  Europe. 103 MSMEs also contribute to value creation by adopting innovation 
generated elsewhere, and adapting it to different contexts through incremental changes, and by distributing new 
or niche products. However, a key challenge for many MSMEs is to identify and connect to appropriate knowledge 
partners and networks at the local, national and global levels, and develop appropriate skills and management

[Page 22]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
22 
practices for integrating knowledge created by external partners with in -house prac tices and innovation 
processes.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal . They 
can establish standard s and promote regulations that ensure projects and initiatives are sustainably 
managed.104 They could also promote innovation by giving all stakeholders the opportunity to offer creative 
solutions to sustainability challenges.105 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The SDGs promote r esource-use 
efficiency and greater adoption of environment-friendly industrial processes. This transition of businesses and 
the economy will open up business opportunities; MSMEs are well -suited t o replicate and commercialise 
technology and add value in a range of areas, such as software, nanotechnology, biotechnology and clean 
technologies.106 Supporting MSMEs in the uptake of these new technologies and business fields will require 
capacity building , knowledge and technology transfer, financial resources and an enabling policy framework 
conducive for promoting the ease of doing business.  
 
MSMEs driving innovation, business examples from the UNDP SDG Accelerator 
Programme for MSMEs 
 
The following highlights some of the innovative SDG solutions developed with support of the UNDP programme, SDG 
Accelerator for MSMEs.107 
Palsgaard has developed a durable anti-fog coating for industrial food packaging, which keeps food fresh for a longer time, 
thus helping to reduce food waste. Through its global presence,  Palsgaard will market the product worldwide with a 
particular focus on the major packaging manufacturers in Asia and the United States. 
RGS Nordic  is developing a digital platform that enables  carriers to optimise the use of the many trucks visiting the 
company’s more than 35 receiving and handling facilities in Scandinavia every day. The solution will significantly reduce 
the number of empty trucks and, consequently, CO 2 and particle emissions. In the long term, the solution will be a best 
practice example of how sharing of transport data and cooperation between different industry actors can significantly 
reduce freight on European roads for the good of businesses, the environment and for people.   
E.ON is developing a model for replacing fossil fuels in local heat production with eco-friendly and cheaper heat pumps in 
housing blocks, townhouses and schools. Heat production in many Danish housing associations is still based on fossil 
fuels like oil and gas. Moreover, a large number of the plants are outdated and not maintained after many years of wear. 
This results in high energy losses and unnecessary operating costs.

[Page 23]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
23 
Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries 
 
This goal has 10 targets, which primarily focus on increasing incomes for low income earning 
groups, ending discrimination, promoting social, economic and political inclusion, promoting 
better wage and social protection policies, facilitating safe migration and reducing remittance 
fees, monitoring regulation of global financial markets, and increasing the voice of and 
assistance to least developed countries (LDCs).  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 10? 
 
MSMEs promote economic inclusion and have the potential to regenerate under-served geographic areas. Small 
businesses serve geographic locations, populations and markets that do not have enough scale to attract larger 
firms. Research has shown that  smaller businesses tend to spend more of the money they make from a local 
area w ithin that area , demonstrating their 
potential to regenerate economically 
disadvantaged localities. A research found that 
in the UK,  for every £1 a local authority spent 
with an MSME, 63p was re -spent in the local 
area compared to 40p for every £1 spent with a 
large business.108 
MSMEs provide incomes to low income and 
marginalized groups. MSMEs tend to be labour -
intensive; they employ many segments of the 
population, including low -skilled and less -
educated people, as well as rural and urban poor 
(see Goal 1). MSMEs also offer employment and 
entrepreneurship opportunities for young 
people, women and other disadvantaged 
groups, including migrants, ethnic minorities and the disabled. MSMEs are  therefore crucial in increasing 
incomes for the bottom 40 percent of the world’s population.  
Increasing productivity of MSMEs can help bridge wage inequality.  OECD work on productivity shows that, in 
some countries, the gap in productivity between MSMEs and large firms increased in the aftermath of the 2007-
08 global crisis.109 While for small and medium-sized enterprises there has been a reversal in this trend during 
the recovery, the larger gap has become persistent for micro -firms. This gap is also an important dr iver of the 
observed rise in inequality, including wage inequality, in many countries. 110 In many emerging and developing 
economies, the productivity gap between bigger firms and MSMEs and the resulting income gaps are especially 
large, due in particular to a disproportionate concentration of employment in micro and small firms, often 
informal ones. Investing in MSME development and increasing their competitiveness and productivity is key to 
reducing wage inequalities.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Adopt equal remuneration policies for men and women employees of the same competency. 
Ensure compliance with the minimum wage policies and exclude preferences based on gender, 
race, religion and other discriminatory grounds.