--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C51
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 31
Word Range: 14170 - 14460
Word Count: 291
--------------------

[Page 31]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
31 
Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 
resources for sustainable development 
 
This goal has ten targets. They encourage reduction in marine pollution, sustainable 
management of marine and coastal ecosystems, regulation of overfishing, protection of 
marine ecosystems and oceans, promotion of research to address ocean acidification, 
promotion of benefi ts of marine resources to small island developing state s, promotion of 
international cooperation, research and capacity building on marine technology, and in 
promotion of conservation.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 14? 
 
Small-scale fishery and marine -based enterprises are directly relevant to the goal . Target 14.b “provide access 
for small -scale artisanal fishers to marine resources and 
markets”. The small -scale, artisanal fishery sector 
encompasses pre-harvest, harvest and post -harvest, and 
employs both men and women in almost equal measure s, 
with a high female participation in fish processing and small-
scale fish trading operations. 156 Some 90 to 95 percent of 
the catch produced by small -scale landings is used for the 
consumption of local communities and i n some developing 
countries, including small island deve loping states ( SIDS), 
small-scale fisheries provide more than 60 percent of protein 
intake. 157  If small -scale actors are capacitated with 
monitoring of fishery management systems and marine 
resource governance, it could help to relieve environmental 
pressures stemming from overfishing .158  
Building MSME capabilities to promote sustainability of value chains.  Sustainable practices , such as eco-
labelling, and traceability systems for wild  catch will help MSMEs become more competitive, considering the 
increased demands of consumers for fair trade, organic a nd BioTrade products .159 There has already been 
evidence showing seafood production certified under global sustainability initiatives grew 40 -fold from 2003 to 
2015 and now represents more than 14 percent of global production. 160 As indicated under Goal 12, MSMEs 
face challenges in adopting certifications and eco -labelling due to the resources and costs involved. Technical 
assistance and financing to cover costs of certification can help small-scale marine-based enterprises to become 
more competitive for their business operations, contributing to the progress of this goal.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Track the product life cycle to understand how they are disposed, and which products could likely 
find their way into marine environments.161 
▪ Record and disclose information on the chemical makeup and material usage of p roducts, 
packaging, and processing systems to facilitate closing the loop. 
▪ Prevent waste mismanagement or littering that could pollute the marine environment.  
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and supply chain. 162 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The OECD projects 
a marked acceleration in economic activity in the ocean by 2030, based on the rapidly expanding ocean 
industries combined with expectations of moderate growth in already large industries like maritime and coastal 
tourism, offshore oil and gas, shipbuilding and maritime equipment. 163 Conservatively, ocean-based industries’