--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 14 to Page 16
Word Range: 5014 - 6376
Word Count: 1,363
--------------------

[Page 14]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
14 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal. Similar 
to large companies, MSMEs can be encouraged to adopt gender inclusive policies within their business practice 
and in their value chains. This includes ensuring equal pay and benefits for work of equal value, zero -tolerance 
towards all forms of violence at work, supporting women with flexible work arrangements, providing child and 
dependent care support, promoting women in managem ent positions and increasing gender balance in the 
teams.51 This could be achieved by adopting the Women’s Empowerment Principles, which are being promoted 
by UN Women and UN Global Compact for firms of all sizes in all sectors.52 Many other tools exist that businesses, 
including MSMEs, can use to promote gender inclusivity in their value chains. MSME entrepreneurs need to be 
informed and trained on adopting these tools to change business practices.   
 
Gender balance in business promotes sustainability  
Women employees and women leaders in business prioritize sustainability. A study by Net Impact found that 60 percent 
of employed women said it was very important to work for a company that prioritises social and environmental 
responsibility, compared to 38 percent of men.53 Evidence also shows that companies with more women on their boards 
are more likely to invest in renewable power generation, low-carbon products, and energy efficiency.54  
Women-owned enterprises and women leaders are core to changing business practice and culture towards sustainability.  
An example is Green Strategy.55  Anna Brismar is the founder and owner of Green Strategy, a consultancy firm specialized 
in circularity and sustainability issues of the fashion, apparel and textile industries on a global scale. She is the owner and 
developer of the online platform Circularfashion.com, which is the world’s first platform dedicated exclusively to circularity 
issues in the fashion, apparel and textile industries. She is also the founder and head of the Circular Fashion Network, an 
international network of professionals working with circularity and sustainability issues in the fashion and textile 
industries.56 Principles of design being promoted in the company include durability and longevity, use of nontoxic and 
biodegradable materials, and ethical attitudes towards society and environment. They are also promoting recycling 
through the development of effective and safe technologies.

[Page 15]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
15 
Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water 
and sanitation for all  
 
This goal has eight targets. They focus on ensuring universal and equitable access to safe 
water and safe sanitation, improving water quality, achieving water efficiency in sectors, 
protecting water-based ecosystems, promoting integrated water resource management, 
and increasing international cooperation to transfer knowledge, capacity building and 
technology to address water and sanitation and to promote local level management of 
water and sanitation activities.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 6? 
 
MSMEs deliver water and sanitation services. The World Bank estimates an annual 
need of $114 billion between now and 2030, three times the current investment 
levels, if we are to achieve the targets related to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) 
of SDG 6.57 MSMEs fill the gap in many developing countries where the public sector 
fails to reach communities, particularly low -income families. In Asia, Africa and Latin 
America, M SMEs, either through  their own funds or loans and some equity, are 
delivering water and creating sanitation infrastructure in the rural -remote or dense -
urban areas. These MSMEs provide, in various innovative ways, safe water in cans or 
affordable water filtration systems; similarly , they provide household latrines with 
onsite waste treatment or transportation and treatment/recycling of  the waste . In 
Ghana, as in many other low - to middle -income countries, micro -enterprises are 
common in sanitation service delivery , which include the storage, collection and 
transport sections of the sanitation value chain.58 MSMEs in the water and sanitation 
sector, however, face difficulties in viability due to limitations in demand, lack of 
business and technical skills , and financial challenges such  as access to credit. 59 Capacity building of MSMEs 
in the sector can contribute to the goal. 
 
Agricultural and food supply chain MSMEs can conserve water . The agriculture sector is by far the largest user 
of freshwater, accounting for nearly 70 percent of global water withdrawals.60 Saving just a fraction of this would 
significantly alleviate water stress in other sectors, particularly in arid countries where agriculture can consume 
as much as 90 percent of available water resources. 61 MSMEs active in the agri cultural value chain can 
contribute to water savings by increasing productivity of food crops, improving water management practices and 
technologies, implementing sustainable agricultural practices, and growing fewer water-intensive crops. Capacity 
building and awareness-raising for agri-businesses and farmers is key to changing these practices. 
  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Ensure that the workplace has appropriate WA SH facilities and advocate for WASH amongst 
employees. 
▪ Prioritize water efficiency by installing best-practice technologies for water conservation. 
▪ Educate employees about the importance of water efficiency. 62 
▪ Prohibit the use of chemicals and materials that can be particularly detrimental to water quality if 
improperly disposed.63

[Page 16]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
16 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. A report by the 
World Bank in 2014 identified a potential US $1.2 trillion market for MSMEs in the developing world in the area 
of “clean technology” for the decade ending in 2023. 64 The greatest opportunities identified were in waste 
management, small hydro, water treatment and renewable energy. MSMEs are considered to be particularly well-
placed to operate in this sector as they are already engaged in areas such as construction, installati on, 
operations and maintenance  and the connection that MSMEs have to local markets. The study reports that in 
the UK, up to 90 percent of clean technology businesses are MSMEs, and this could be repl icated in the 
developing world. Safe disposal of waste is a huge challenge in many countries. The Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation has funded innovators of various new, l ow-cost sanitation tech nologies. MSMEs can contribute to 
the commercialization of such technology that is expected to have a global market valued at $6 billion by 2030.65 
MSMEs and start-ups need to be supported with market-based and technology-based solutions through capacity 
building, access to finance and expertise which in turn will contribute to the progress of this goal.  
   
 Startups with water and sanitation solutions  
 
cewas Start-Up Programme Switzerland was initiated in 2011 and targets young entrepreneurs.66 The programme consists 
of sector-relevant lectures providing the knowledge that allows participants to develop an idea, create a strong business 
model, pitch the idea to the water sector at the International Water Week in Stockholm, develop the idea and manage the 
business model. Expert coaches provide one -on-one coaching such as technical or business advice, introduce the start -
ups into their network and assist with funding options. The programme lasts for one year and as of 2018, 54 start -ups 
and MSMEs have participated. Participants include: 
Eco Solutions Forge (ESF)  was founded in 2014 as a result of participating in the cewas Start -Up Programme. ESF aims 
to change the current situation in the Ukrainian Carpathians with regards to wastewater treatment, and to offer 
sustainable sanitation solutions for the tourist industry in the region. Its main activities are consulting and teaching on 
water and sanitation issues, as well as designing and building wastewater treatment systems. Additional activities include 
designing and building public dry toilets and rainwater harvesting systems. Lately, the main focus has been on researching 
and building high-performance cold climate insulated vermifilters with biochar substrate. 
SOIL is a non-profit research and development organization focusing on sustainable provision of household sanitation and 
ecological waste treatment in Haiti. For a small monthly fee, SOIL’s social business, EkoLakay, provides over 1,000 
households with container -based sanitation (CBS) toilets a nd safely transforms all collected waste into compost. The 
revenue from toilet user fees and compost sales support ongoing project costs. SOIL’s model is one of just three household 
CBS services globally.