--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-105-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-105
Page Range: Page 3 to Page 4
Word Range: 251 - 500
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
He stated that rice remained India’s largest agricultural export commodity, with
exports valued at USD 11.5 billion during FY 2025-26. Marine product exports
registered robust growth of 13.4 per cent, rising from USD 7.4 billion in FY
2024-25 to USD 8.4 billion in FY 2025-26, while spice exports maintained a
strong performance with export at USD 4.3 billion.
 
He emphasized that these achievements underscore the resilience of India’s
agricultural sector and the success of ongoing efforts to enhance product
quality, strengthen export infrastructure, improve market access, and promote
value-added agricultural products. Despite global economic uncertainties,
changing trade dynamics, and evolving quality standards, India’s agricultural
exporters have demonstrated remarkable adaptability, further reinforcing the
country’s position as a reliable supplier of agricultural products in global
markets.
 
Shri Ghosh also highlighted that the concluded Free Trade Agreement (FTA)
with the United Kingdom, European Union, New Zealand, Oman, Australia, the
UAE and the EFTA countries are creating significant opportunities for the
expansion and diversification of India's agricultural exports. Improved market
access under these agreements is expected to create new opportunities for
marine products, particularly shrimp and value-added seafood; Basmati and
premium non-Basmati rice; spices, nutraceutical ingredients and traditional
7/6/26, 3:05 PM Press Release Page | Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2271100&reg=24&lang=15 3/6

[Page 4]
food products; tea, especially orthodox and specialty varieties; as well as fruits,
vegetables, millet-based products, meat, organic products and processed
foods.
 
 
Shri Ghosh reiterated that the Department of Commerce is committed to
enabling Indian exporters to fully leverage the opportunities arising from FTAs
and other export promotion initiatives. Complementing these efforts, a range of
government initiatives, including better access to trade finance, Market Access
Support, quality certification and traceability initiative have strengthened India’s
agricultural export ecosystem and enhanced the global competitiveness of
Indian agricultural and food products. These measures are aimed at facilitating
market diversification, encouraged value addition, improved quality standards,
and greater integration of Indian products into global value chains. Under the
Export Promotion Mission, the Government of India has launched Niryat
Protsahan and Niryat Disha as twin initiatives to accelerate export growth and
empower MSMEs. While Niryat Protsahan enhances access to affordable
trade finance and credit support, Niryat Disha provides market access,
accreditation and compliance, branding, and logistics assistance. Together,
these initiatives aim to strengthen India’s export ecosystem, improve global
competitiveness, and enable businesses to access new international
opportunities.
 
7/6/26, 3:05 PM Press Release Page | Press Information Bureau
https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2271100&reg=24&lang=15 4/6