--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C25
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 28 to Page 29
Word Range: 7086 - 7335
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 28]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
28 
3 Project Background 
India is the 2 nd largest aquaculture and 4 th largest fish exporting nation in the world. 
Fisheries and aquaculture sector provides livelihood to about 28 million fishers and fish 
farmers at the primary level and twice the number along the value chain. India shares 
8% to the global production and contributing 1.1% to India’s Gross Value Added (GVA) 
and 6.72% (2020-21) to the agricultural GVA.  
Fisheries sector in India has grown with an average annual growth rate of 10.34% 
during the year from 2014-15 to 2020-21. The fish production in India has registered 
an average annual growth of 7.53% from 2014 -15 to 2020-21. The export of marine 
products stood at 1 .29 million metric tons and valued at INR 46,662.85 crore ( USD 
6.67 billion) during 2019-20.7  
India exports frozen shrimps, fish, cuttlefish, squids and dried items and live, and chilled 
items. Frozen shrimps constitute 75% of export by value and 53% of export by quantity 
USA and China are the top importers of Indian seafood8.  
Under the PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), one of the outcomes targeted by the 
National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) is the doubling of export earnings from 
INR 46,589 crore (2018 -19) to INR 1,00,000 crore by 2024 -25. This is aimed to be 
achieved th rough species diversification, value -addition, infrastructure creation and 
modernization, end -to-end traceability, brand promotion, certification, etc. in 
association with Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA). 
3.1 Marine Products Export Development Authority  
MPEDA was set up by an act of Parliament in 1972. The Act empowers MPEDA to 
regulate exports of marine products and take all measures required for ensuring 
sustained, quality seafood exports from the country. MPEDA as the nodal agency for 
the holistic deve lopment of the seafood industry in India focuses mainly on Market 
Promotion, Capture Fisheries, Culture Fisheries, Processing Infrastructure & Value 
addition, Quality Control, Research and Development. Based on the recommendations 
of MPEDA, Government of I ndia notified new standards for fishing vessels, storage 
premises, processing plants, and conveyances.   
Roles & Responsibilities 
• Registration of infrastructural facilities for seafood export trade. 
• Collection and dissemination of trade information. 
 
7 Handbook of Fisheries Statistics 2020, Government of India 
8 Handbook of Fisheries Statistics 2022, Government of India

[Page 29]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
29 
• Promotion of Indian marine products in overseas markets. 
• Implementation of schemes vital to the industry by extending assistance for 
infrastructure development for better preservation and modernized processing 
following quality regime. 
• Promotion of aquaculture for augmenting export production through hatchery 
development, new farm development, diversification of species and up 
gradation of technology 
• Promotion of deep-sea fishing projects through test fishing, joint ventures, and 
up gradation & installation of equipment to increase the efficiency of fishing. 
• Market promotional activities and publicity. 
• To carry out inspection of marine products, its raw material, fixing standards 
and specifications, training, regulating as well as to take all necessary steps for 
maintaining the quality of seafood that are marketed overseas. 
• Impart trainings to fishermen, fish processing workers, aquaculture farmers 
and other stake holders in the respective fields related to fisheries, promotion 
of modernization of fishing harbours. 
• Conduct research and development for the aquaculture of aquatic species 
having export potential through Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA). 
• Conduct extension and awareness activities, trainings etc. through Network 
for Fish Quality Management and Sustainable Fishing (NETFISH) & National 
Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA). 
• To prescribe for itself any matters required for protecting and augmenting the 
seafood exports from the country in the future. 
The central sector scheme of MPEDA is presented below. It has various sub -
components to address different needs of various stakeholders in this ecosystem. It 
offers financial assistance, training programs, technical assistance, and laboratory 
services. It also offers other support services such as trade promotions, export 
facilitation certificates and registration of stakeholders and export units.