--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C36
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 43
Word Range: 10212 - 10536
Word Count: 325
--------------------

[Page 43]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
43 
The financial assistance scheme was reported to be very useful during the primary 
survey. Their only source of awareness about the scheme and scheme -related 
information was MPEDA.  
Business Profile of the respondents was such that 66% of them exported single 
segment, fishes or shrimps alone. Their average annual export ranged from INR 30 to 
600 crore. 88% of the respondents operated in diversified markets with a focus on USA 
and EU.  
Only 53% of the respondents filled the 
application online. MPEDA officials were 
supportive in the filling up of application and 
clarifying doubts that came along the way. 
However, they faced challenges in uploading 
documents facing network and server error s 
apart from low file size limit.  
83% of the respondents found the scheme ‘excellent’. 50% of them found the 
assistance amount to be ‘adequate’. 27% of respondents used the Advance Approval 
letter to purchase products faster or secure bank loan.  
In terms of documentation, respondents found securing the CE certificate and pollution 
control board certificate to be particularly difficult.   
Other challenges highlighted by some of the beneficiaries  in increasing the value and 
volume of value-added exports include the higher lead time in securing import permit 
and clearances of raw materials, involvement of multiple agencies such as EIC, Customs 
and FSSAI in issuing clearance and cost of testing the samples of imported items. This 
reduces the opportunity for exporters to import raw materials for further processing 
for exports. 
5.2.2  Market Promotion 
To keep up with the competition in the international markets, MPEDA enables 
participation of exporters in the International Seafood Fairs each year and organizes 
buyer-seller meets to help exporters expand their market and buyers. In addition, small 
exporters (export value less than USD 20 million) receive financial assistance from 
MPEDA to participate in these fairs as co-exhibitors.  
 
“New IQF machine helped 
improve productivity by 
25% and allowed faster 
freezing as well.”