--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C68
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 85 to Page 86
Word Range: 19482 - 19731
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 85]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
85 
8.4 Appendix D: Questionnaire 
Exporters 
A. Instruction to the interviewer 
• The interviewer must start with his/her introduction and the nature of the work 
done by the organization. 
• Orient the respondent about the consent for the interview and share the correct 
estimated time required for this discussion and then initiate the discussion guided 
by the questionnaire. 
• In the case of qualitative data collection, it is not necessary to follow the guide in 
sequential order; the discussion can be guided basis answers from the respondent, 
ensuring the areas of inquiry are covered overall. However, in the case of structured 
questions of quantitative questionnaires, the given order of questions is to be 
followed. To adopt this method, please read the guide properly and understand the 
sections and questions very clearly. Practice as much as possible before collecting 
data. 
• This research questionnaire (both quantitative and qualitative) will cover the 
beneficiaries identified by the MEPDA field offices (Regional Division or Sub -
Regional Division) only. 
• Please ensure that the interview is held within the premises of the MPEDA field 
office (Regional Division or Sub-Regional Division). 
• In case beneficiaries are not available on the day of visit of team, the questionnaire 
may be administered through virtual meeting or over a call. 
B. Introduction and Consent for the Interview 
Hello Sir/Madam! My name is ---------------- and I am working as a researcher with Athena 
Infonomics India Pvt. Ltd.  
As you would be aware, the Central Sector Scheme of Marine Products Export Development 
Authority (MPEDA) a flagship initiative of the Government of India to promote exports of 
marine products in the country. MPEDA offers various schemes like financial assi stance to 
support high-end or value-added products, financial assistance to move towards certification 
for primary production, financial assistance to set up Mini Labs, Training through different 
divisions and societies, Laboratory services, Certifications  for traceability and Assistance for 
technology incubation.  
For a systematic and comprehensive review, MPEDA has engaged Athena Infonomics India 
Pvt. Ltd.to assess the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA. The objective of the assessment is to 
(i) Evaluate the performance/effectiveness of the scheme; (ii) Assess the impact of the scheme; 
(iii) Identify the challenges in the implementation of the scheme; (iv) Evaluate the need and 
effectiveness of trainings; (v) Assess the ease of applying to the scheme and (vi) User -
friendliness of the online portal of MPEDA.

[Page 86]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
86 
The selection of beneficiaries is random, and you have been selected for this interview as your 
role has been important in the implementation of this scheme and your experience would be 
relevant to strengthening the scheme and organization.  
You may feel free to ask me any questions related to the study. Thank you for your support. 
Now we can start our discussion.  
 
Beneficiary: MPEDA-Registered Processing or Handling Units for Exports 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  Name of interviewer  
 
2.  Date of interview (DD/MM/YY)  
 
3.  Permission for interview granted.  (1) Yes 
(2) No 
4.  The place of Interview  (1) Within the premise of Field Office 
(2) Other/community  
5.  Respondent Name   
6.  Name of Handling Centre  
7.  Address of Handling Centre  
 
8.  District name  
 
9.  State name  
 
 
Business Profile 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  For how many years have you been in the 
business of marine products? 
 
2.  Are you a ﬁrst-generation entrepreneur? (1) Yes 
(2) No 
3.  In which year did you start this Handling 
Centre/Processing Unit? 
 
4.  Number of Processing Plants  
5.  What marine products do you export?  
6.  Which is your export market? (You may select 
more than one option) 
❑ USA 
❑ EU 
❑ Japan 
❑ Other: ______