--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C50
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 58 to Page 59
Word Range: 14574 - 14823
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 58]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
58 
Figure 16: Key focus areas of RGCA 
 
Source: RGCA Activities document shared on 11 Aug 2023 
Below table summarises the quantum of seeds distributed for the species promoted 
under species diversification project 
Table 14: Distribution of seeds for species diversification by RGCA since inception of the projects 
Species Particulars Quantity 
Seabass Total number of seed supplied (from 
2000) 
25.8 million 
No. of beneficiaries 3007 
Area promoted 4251 Ha (0.5/m2) 
Mudcrab Total number of crab-instar/crablets 
supplied 
9.2 million 
No. of beneficiaries 1049 
Area promoted 1803 Ha 
GIFT Total number of seed/brood-fry 
supplied 
All male seed: 43.65 million 
  Brood-fry: 51,728 nos. 
No. of beneficiaries 531 
Area promoted 1778.5 Ha 
Artemia Artemia biomass & Cyst supplied Biomass: 7834 Kg 
  Cysts: 2,762 Tins 
No. of beneficiaries 569 
Source: RGCA Activities document shared on 11 Aug 2023

[Page 59]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
59 
Respondents have purchased seeds of GIFT Tilapia, Pearlspot, Mudcrab and Seabass. 
The demand for Mudcrab seeds in the east coast is higher than the present supply. 
Main challenges in commercial adoption include timely availability and sufficient 
quantity of seeds for culture and relatively lower market price compared to shrimps. 
Respondents wanted more technical guidance from RCGA for commercial adoption.  
RGCA has also signed MoU with state Governments and private entrepreneurs on 
transfer of technology for establishment of hatcheries for diversified species. 
5.3 Problems/Hurdles in the implementation of the 
Scheme 
Common challenges found in the implementation of the scheme are related to securing 
supporting documents, processing time of application and engagement frequency with 
the beneficiaries.  
• Delay in allocating funds for disbursement to beneficiaries for the SFC period.   
• Documents to be sourced from multiple departments from the state 
government and local body which delays the collection of documents to be 
submitted for availing financial assistance.  
• New exporters require more hand holding in terms of presenting the required 
documents and invoices in the prescribed formats. For some of them this has 
led to lapsing of the extended period of the advance approval. They also require 
support in being referr ed to reliable buyers to avoid changes in the quotation 
post receipt of advance approval.  
• Large number of documents to be verified especially for financial assistance 
causing delay in processing applications with limited manpower at the Head 
office and field offices.  
• Online portal is not user-friendly to help officials verify and validate documents 
and invoices.  
• Application forms are not in local or regional language making applicants 
dependent on MPEDA officials to clarify and complete the application.  
• Lack of a monitoring and decision-making tool for the MPEDA officials to track 
the progress of scheme disbursals and other performance metrics or 
deliverables.  
• The structure of MPEDA is functionally organized into administrative sections, 
there is limited formal flow of information and data among the sections leading 
to the schemes and programs being implemented as a standalone activity.