--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 3078 - 3377
Word Count: 300
--------------------

[Page 15]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
15 
REESI 
Dimensions 
Impact Findings 
support in transferring learning of training into production 
line. 
• 100% of respondents found mini lab set up with MPEDA's 
financial assistance useful. 
• Respondents reported a limited price realization as 
envisaged as part of cluster formations by NaCSA. 
• 100% of the respondents found the training material and 
quality of trainers adequate and relevant.  
• Online portal is transactional and does not allow for 
continuous engagement of beneficiaries. 
 
• Respondents of financial assistance scheme for value -
added products and mini labs continue to use the 
infrastructure for furthering exports. 
• Training programs helped create awareness, but the rate 
of adoption is slow due to cost-benefit reasons.  
• Portal for availing export facilitation certificates was 
reported to be useful and user -friendly leading to higher 
adoption rate.  
• Farming clusters were unable to leverage the complete 
benefits due to low bargaining power. 
• Technical documentation for all modules of e -mpeda 
portal not available. Change requests and updates done 
over email does not allow monitoring and learning of the 
portal utilisation.  
• Awareness about the schemes and services of MPEDA is 
person-driven and nature of benefit realised.  
• Limited brand building of MPEDA  
 
The suggested recommendations build on stakeholders’ feedback and structure around 
broad dimensions for the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) to 
enhance its impact and effectiveness. The recommendations have been structured on 
three levels – Strategic, System and Process level and Scheme-level.   
Establish a Technical Project Management Office (TPMO): MPEDA should transform 
from the role of administrator of financial benefits to a techno-commercial agency for 
better engagement with stakeholders. TPMO would work on mission mode and be 
cross-functional with clearly defined outcomes aligned to organizational goals and 
functional goals.  
Sustainability