--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 35 to Page 41
Word Range: 8236 - 9467
Word Count: 1,232
--------------------

[Page 35]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
35 
4.3.2 Heuristics Evaluation Framework for assessment of online 
portals 
A heuristic evaluation is a method for identifying design problems in a user interface. 
To assess usability, Jakob Neilsen’s 10 usability heuristics will be used as a guideline. 
The guideline heuristics have been outlined below.  
Table 8: Heuristic Evaluation Framework 
Heuristic Description Explanation 
Visibility Show system status and tell 
what’s happening 
The interface should always keep 
users informed about what is going on 
through appropriate feedback within 
reasonable time. 
Freedom Provide good defaults and 
undo 
Allow users to leave the unwanted 
state and have a clearly marked 
“emergency exit”. 
Error Prevention Help users avoid making 
mistakes 
Eliminate error-prone conditions or 
check for them. Present users with a 
confirmation option before they 
commit to the action. 
Flexibility Make advanced tasks fluid 
and efficient 
Allow users to tailor frequent actions 
and efficiency of use. 
Error Recovery Help users recognize, 
diagnose, and recover from 
errors 
Error messages should be expressed 
in plain language, precisely indicate 
the problem, and constructively 
suggest a solution. 
Mapping Use familiar metaphors and 
language 
Speak the users’ language, words, 
phrases, and concepts 
Consistency Use the same language and 
interface throughout 
Make sure that the user interface is 
predictable and learnable. 
Recognition Make information easy to 
discover 
Minimize user’s memory load by 
making objects, actions, and options 
visible or easily retrievable whenever 
appropriate. 
Minimalism Provide only necessary 
information in an elegant way 
Every extra unit of information 
competes with the relevant units of 
information and diminishes their 
relative visibility. 
Help Use proactive and in-place 
hints to guide users 
Provide necessary help and 
documentation. Any such information 
should be easy to search, focused on 
the user’s task, list of concrete steps 
to be carried out and not be too large. 
Source: Neilsen Norman’s Heuristic Evaluation

[Page 36]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
36 
For this study, we used the Neilsen Norman Group’s Heuristic Evaluation to assess and 
report the level of user -friendliness of the web portals offered by MPEDA for the 
central sector scheme.  
4.4 Sampling  
Purposive sampling method was used. The sample was drawn from the list of 
beneficiaries during the period 2017 -2020 and their geographical distribution. S tates 
of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu  were 
covered. They are distributed by schemes and programs as tabulated below.  
Table 9: Sampling frame 
Scheme Beneficiaries Sample 
Market promotion - International Fairs 40 10 
Financial Assistance for Mini Labs 10 5 
Financial Assistance for Value-Added  98 40 
Moving towards Certification (MTC) for Primary Production 90 35 
Other Support Functions – Certificates, Lab services & Training Multiple 20 
Total 238 110

[Page 37]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
37 
4.5 Report and data limitations 
Time lag  between scheme implementation and impact survey conducted causing 
respondents to rely on recall. To counter this, the study questionnaire included recall 
cues adopting a storyboard approach.  
This report focused only on the evaluation of impact of the Central Sector Scheme of 
MPEDA for the SFC 2017-2020 period. The selection of beneficiaries are also from the 
same period. Therefore, the impact is restricted and limited to the benefits realised for 
the said time period alone.

[Page 38]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
38 
  
SURVEY DATA 
ANALYSIS AND 
FINDINGS 
CHAPTER 5

[Page 39]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
39 
5 Survey Data Analysis & Findings 
This chapter covers the impact evaluation framework, the analysis of different scheme 
components and the key findings from the responses of 110 sample beneficiaries. The 
geographical coverage of the respondents includes the states of Andhra Pradesh, 
Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu. The composition of 
respondents is exporters, aquaculture farmers, boat owners, and farmer societies.  
5.1 Impact Evaluation Areas 
The evaluation of impact of schemes and services have been conducted based on the 
OECD-DAC’s REESI framework. The respondent beneficiaries provided their feedback 
on the different schemes, services and trainings represented through these evaluation 
questions.  
Table 10: Impact Evaluation Questions based on REESI framework. 
Dimension Evaluation Questions 
Relevance 
Is the 
intervention 
doing the 
right things? 
• How do you perceive the relevance of the MPEDA scheme 
components in addressing your speciﬁc needs and objectives?  
• Did the market promotion activities supported by MPEDA align with 
your target markets and export goals?  
• Did the technical assistance and lab services help you export better 
quality marine products? 
• Were the species promoted/technology transferred by RGCA as per 
the need of the sector? 
Effectiveness 
How well are 
resources 
being used? 
• How has your participation in MPEDA-supported international fairs or 
exhibitions helped improve your exports?  
• How has the ﬁnancial assistance provided by MPEDA for value 
addition contributed to enhancing the competitiveness of your export 
products?  
• What challenges, if any, have you encountered during the application 
process for export facilitation certiﬁcates, and how has MPEDA 
supported you in overcoming those challenges? 
Efficiency • How long did it take to collect the documents required to submit the 
online application?

[Page 40]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
40 
Dimension Evaluation Questions 
Is the 
intervention 
achieving its 
objectives? 
• What was the time taken for getting the approval for your application? 
• How much time does it takes for you to get the certiﬁcate after 
applying? 
• Whether you received timely technical assistance from RGCA? 
• What is your opinion about the arrangements for the training? 
Impact 
What 
difference 
does the 
intervention 
make? 
• How has the assisted infrastructure helped you in product 
diversiﬁcation and increasing export earnings? 
• How did the scheme beneﬁt your society/cluster? 
• Whether the formation of cluster helped in better market access and 
price realisation? 
• Was the training useful for you to develop a HACCP plan for your 
unit? 
Sustainability 
How to 
sustain and 
scale the 
beneﬁts of 
the schemes? 
• Do you think the online system requires any modiﬁcations? If yes, 
please mention the same.  
• Any suggestions to improve the schemes and sub-schemes? 
• How do you feel the training can be improved further? Any 
suggestions?

[Page 41]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
41 
5.2 Impact assessment of the Central Sector Scheme 
The role of different schemes and programs under the Central Sector Scheme of 
MPEDA for the SFC 2017-2020 period have been presented along the value chain of 
the fisheries and aquaculture industry.  
Figure 6: Position of Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA in the value chain 
 
Source: Athena analysis 
The feedback from the respondent beneficiaries for respective schemes have been 
covered in the subsequent sub-sections.  
5.2.1 Support for high end/ innovative value addition for 
exports  
Special emphasis has been given for the promotion of export of value-added products 
as there is an increasing global demand for value added products in convenient form. 
The Scheme is aimed to bring in more investment in high end Value Addition and also 
on establishment of appropriate facilities to export live, chilled, and dried marine 
products having high unit value.  
There are various sub-schemes under this scheme that include: 
• Technology development for Specific Value-Added Products 
o Technology Upgradation Scheme for Marine Products 
o Assistance for Infrastructural Development for Value Addition 
o Assistance for Process Automation and Packaging 
o Assistance for Large Cold Storage 
• Assistance for export handling units for Live/Chilled and Dried marine 
products