--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C33
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 39
Word Range: 9216 - 9500
Word Count: 285
--------------------

[Page 39]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
39 
5 Survey Data Analysis & Findings 
This chapter covers the impact evaluation framework, the analysis of different scheme 
components and the key findings from the responses of 110 sample beneficiaries. The 
geographical coverage of the respondents includes the states of Andhra Pradesh, 
Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu. The composition of 
respondents is exporters, aquaculture farmers, boat owners, and farmer societies.  
5.1 Impact Evaluation Areas 
The evaluation of impact of schemes and services have been conducted based on the 
OECD-DAC’s REESI framework. The respondent beneficiaries provided their feedback 
on the different schemes, services and trainings represented through these evaluation 
questions.  
Table 10: Impact Evaluation Questions based on REESI framework. 
Dimension Evaluation Questions 
Relevance 
Is the 
intervention 
doing the 
right things? 
• How do you perceive the relevance of the MPEDA scheme 
components in addressing your speciﬁc needs and objectives?  
• Did the market promotion activities supported by MPEDA align with 
your target markets and export goals?  
• Did the technical assistance and lab services help you export better 
quality marine products? 
• Were the species promoted/technology transferred by RGCA as per 
the need of the sector? 
Effectiveness 
How well are 
resources 
being used? 
• How has your participation in MPEDA-supported international fairs or 
exhibitions helped improve your exports?  
• How has the ﬁnancial assistance provided by MPEDA for value 
addition contributed to enhancing the competitiveness of your export 
products?  
• What challenges, if any, have you encountered during the application 
process for export facilitation certiﬁcates, and how has MPEDA 
supported you in overcoming those challenges? 
Efficiency • How long did it take to collect the documents required to submit the 
online application?