--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C47
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 55
Word Range: 13580 - 13960
Word Count: 381
--------------------

[Page 55]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
55 
100% of the respondents have chosen L.vannamei as the crop of choice. The median 
farm size is 5.5 acres.  
Respondents from Raigad, Maharashtra reported a unique challenge of not having local 
hatcheries and feed mill to support production. They usually source it from Andhra 
Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.  
86% of the respondents filled a physical application form and almost always took help 
of friends, family members and MPEDA officials to fill the form.  
The time to purchase and install the required biosecurity infrastructure took between 
6 months and 2 years before the respondents applied for final approval to receive the 
assistance.  
45% of the respondents felt that an increase in the subsidy amount would be helpful 
as the cost of establishing the farm is between six and seven lakh rupees. MPEDA 
officials have also made representation to increase the eligible amount under the Kisan 
Credit Card from the regular INR 3 lakh that other agriculture farmers can avail for.  
A unique challenge for the farmers from the SC/ST category is the insufficient access 
to formal credit. As a result, they are unable to fully utilise the 75% financial assistance 
and the advance approval letter to help purchase the required infrastructure for their 
farms.  
Impact: Only 9% of the respondents reported to have sold their produce directly to the 
exporter. Remaining 81% sold it to agents but were not sure which market their 
produce was being exported to. Also, they faced other challenges such as water quality 
issues, power shortages and increasing input costs (mainly feed and labour).  
Market-related challenges highlighted by the respondents include lower market price 
for their crop, and increasing input costs (feed and electricity).  
5.2.5.2  Export Traceability 
Around 78% of the fishery products traded worldwide are destined to international 
markets, so it is necessary to ensure that they do not come from fisheries that 
compromise the sustainability of resources and ecosystems, nor from illegal, 
unreported, or regulated (IUU) sources. Hence, traceability becomes a very useful tool 
to combat these practices and ensure the legitimate origin of the products.  
According to World Wildlife Fund, traceability throughout the entire production chain 
helps: 
• Ensure traceable products to the point of origin from legal catches from 
regulated fisheries reports.