--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 8 to Page 10
Word Range: 1012 - 1261
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 8]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer 
This report is prepared based on data provided to us. While due care has been taken during the 
compilation of this report to ensure that the information is accurate to the best of Athena Infonomics 
and MPEDA knowledge and belief, the content is not to be construed in any manner whatsoever as a 
substitute for independent advice and decision. Athena Infonomics and MPEDA neither recommend nor 
endorse any specific products or services that may have been mentioned in this report and nor do they 
assume any liability or responsibility for the outcome of decisions taken as a result of any reliance placed 
in this report. Neither Athena Infonomics nor MPEDA shall be liable for any direct or indirect damages 
that may arise due to any act or omission on the part of the user due to any reliance placed or guidance 
taken from any portion of this report.

[Page 9]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
9 
  
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY 
CHAPTER 1

[Page 10]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
10 
1 Executive Summary 
The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) was set up by an act of 
Parliament during 1972. The erstwhile Marine Products Export Promotion Council 
established by the Government of India in September 1961 was converged in to 
MPEDA on 24th August 1972. MPEDA is given the mandate to promote the marine 
products industry with special reference to exports from the country. It is envisaged 
that this organization would take all actions to develop and augment the resources 
required for promoting the exports of “all varieties of fishery products known 
commercially as shrimp, prawn, lobster, crab, fish, shell -fish, other aquatic animals or 
plants or part thereof and any other products which the authority may, by notification 
in the Gazette of India, declare to be marine products for the purposes of (the) Act”. 
The Act empowers MPEDA to regulate exports of marine products and take all 
measures required for ensuring sustained, quality seafood exports from the country. 
MPEDA is given the authority to prescribe for itself any matters which the future might 
require for protecting and augmenting the seafood exports from the country. It is also 
empowered to carry out inspection of marine products, its raw material, fixing 
standards, specifications, and training as well as take all necessary steps for marketing 
the seafood overseas. 
MPEDA mandated Athena Infonomics to undertake an evaluation and impact 
assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA for the SFC period 2017 -2020. 
The objective of study is to highlight the impact made by MPEDA through its central 
sector scheme and various training programs and support services such as QC and 
ELISA laboratories, and exp ort facilitation certificates for the Exporters and 
Aquaculture farmers. To assess MPEDA Central Sector Scheme, a comprehensive 
approach utilizing the Organisation for Eco nomic Co -operation and Development 
(OECD) REESI  Framework (Relevance, Efficiency, Effectiveness, Sustainability, and 
Impact) was employed. The study involved mixed methods, gathering feedback from 
key stakeholders in the marine export ecosystem. To assess the user -friendliness of 
their e-mpeda portal, Heuristic Evaluation framework was used. Various dimensions of 
user-friendliness including Visibility, Flexibility, Consistency, Freedom, Mapping, Error 
Prevention, Error Recovery, Recognition, Minimalism, and Help. 
MPEDA organises various activities and initiatives along the value chain of the fisheries 
and aquaculture industry. Under the central sector scheme for the SFC 2017 -20 
period, MPEDA implemented schemes related to promotion of value addition products, 
moving towards certification for primary production , establishment of minilabs for 
exporters, training of farmers and promotion of latest technology for species 
diversification. The various components of this central sector scheme have been 
aligned along the value chain as described below.