--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 69 to Page 75
Word Range: 16222 - 17424
Word Count: 1,203
--------------------

[Page 69]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
69 
 
6.2 Scheme-level 
6.2.1 Demand driven budgetary support to value addition 
schemes 
Context • 40 applications worth INR 99 crore  (backlog) were pending due to non-
availability of funds and change in scheme components. Anticipating fund 
support from MPEDA, entrepreneurs established the facility utilizing 
institutional finance.   
• The process of availing scheme  benefits specifically value addition   
require significant effort in collecting various documents from local 
authorities leading to 6 months to 15 months leading to beneficiary 
missing out on the scheme benefits due to scheme construct and or non-
availability of funds for disbursement. 
Action 
Points 
• Planning and implementation period scheme may be extended to include 
the time required for beneficiary preparedness and application process 
time.   
o First 12 months (1st year) - market assessment of proposed scheme 
construct 
o 12 months to 48 months (3 year) – scheme implementation period 
o 48 months to 54 months  (6 months) – scheme transition period 
(cooling period) before migrating to next plan period 
• Conduct demand assessment  before the planning period  combining the 
pending applications and expected demand for the scheme based on 
market feedback. 
• Appraise and prepare the beneficiaries for the impending change in 
market demands and scheme construct during cooling period as outlined 
above. 
• Create a strategic roadmap to help beneficiaries who applied for the 
schemes but haven’t received the assistance to transition smoothly into 
another scheme if available or engage continuously to support them 
technically. For this, additional fund support may be extended to MPEDA. 
Advantages: 
• Accurate estimation of demand off-take for various scheme components 
with clearly defined outcomes.

[Page 70]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
70 
• Adaptive scheme implementation approach to accommodate 
implementation challenges at state level. 
• Leverage training programs as lead generators for different financial 
assistance schemes and technical guidance converting training to 
production line.  
• Help reduce the mismatch in expectations between beneficiaries and 
MPEDA   
Priority High

[Page 71]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
71 
6.2.2  Delegation of authority for evaluation of scheme 
proposals to RD 
Context • During the evaluation period, the scheme related proposals from 
exporters and farmers move from S ub-Regional Division (SRD) to 
Regional Division (RD) to HQ through iterative evaluation process 
leading to multiple review and validation at different levels causing 
significant duplication of evaluation process. 
• At present, the e-mpeda portal is only 60% effective in delivering 
online evaluation process leading to physical movement of 
documents to HQ, multiple validation, and scrutiny of documents 
along the administrative chain leading to delay and bandwidth 
constraint at all levels. 
Action 
Points 
• Modalities of delegation of power to be decided by committee. 
• Redesign of portal to support online evaluation of proposals 
submitted by exporters and farmers. 
• Decentralized document evaluation at zonal level may be 
established to ensure process compliance before the final decision 
can be taken at appropriate level. 
Priority High

[Page 72]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
72 
6.3 System and Process 
6.3.1  Augmenting human resources for effective functioning of 
MPEDA 
Context • The total sanctioned strength of MPEDA has been revised from 
420 to 250 combining the Head Office and Field Offices based on 
the restructuring proposal of the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry.  
• At present, the number of  resources in position is only 181 
including 11 officials on deputation. The existing staff is not  
adequate to meet the growth objective of the sector.  
• There are 66 vacant posts for technical positions in aquaculture, 
export promotion and quality control. 
Action 
Points 
• Approval to the restructuring proposal of MPEDA and p rioritize 
recruitment of all the vacant positions for better functioning of the 
authority to support the sector. 
• Make capacity building training of internal staff to enable them to 
take up cross-functional activities. 
• Training of personnel to focus on increased engagement with 
stakeholders that will encourage high-end or value-added exports. 
Advantages: 
• Building of a resilient team to deliver on the export target for India. 
• Skilled resources to manage the market demands.  
Priority High

[Page 73]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
73 
6.3.2  Adoption of digital and artificial intelligence-based 
solutions 
Context • Reduced human resources  is creating a burden in continuous 
engagement with relevant stakeholders 
• Existing digital solutions are under -utilized. There is no local 
language support in the existing e -mpeda portal that is driving 
engagement with all stakeholders for various schemes. 
• Social media is also under-utilized for market promotions. 
Action 
Points 
• Redesign the e-mpeda portal to make it user-friendly and inclusive 
in terms of offering regional or local language support.   
• Redesign MPEDA’s website  as per Government of India 
Guidelines for Websites (GIGW) guidelines  to improve user 
experience and cope up with market demands. 
• Provide interactive chatbot service to address common queries of 
stakeholders – schemes, trainings, source for seeds & feeds, etc.  
• Use e -mpeda portal to display critical input information for 
different stakeholders as a dashboard to push information 
automatically. 
• Use of blockchain technology in MPEDA’s traceability systems to 
verify details of farm registrations, consignment creation, lab 
testing, etc.  
• Build mobile apps for sharing market information  for better 
marketing, tracking of applications and registrations.  
• Strengthen and automate data collection in the harbors. 
• Establish a dedicated team to manage MPEDA’s products and 
events on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, 
Instagram, etc. 
Advantages: 
• Improved and reliability in traceability systems.  
• Help bridge the gap between supply and demand for export. 
Areas of digital interventions: 
• Decision support systems for top management 
• AI-based chat bot for addressing day -to-day queries from 
exporters.

[Page 74]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
74 
• Knowledge management of organizational processes, initiatives , 
and market level intelligence  
• Registration of farmers and exporters for continuous engagement.  
Priority Medium

[Page 75]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
75 
6.4 Ecosystem Initiatives 
To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of central sector schemes, the following 
recommendations are outlined below: 
6.4.1  NaCSA to facilitate incubation of FPOs for aquaculture 
farmers  
Context • NaCSA is working towards making Aquaculture Sustainable activity to 
improve livelihoods of Coastal villagers, with a “Self Help Group” 
approach to address market concerns through convergence of various 
Stakeholders and move towards formation of societies a nd educated 
them on better management practices (BMP) for safe and sustainable 
shrimp farming. NaCSA also trained these farmer societies to follow 
cluster approach in shrimp farming.  
• While the above process helped farmers from capacity building 
perspective, the bargaining power of farmers continue to be challenge 
from supply and demand perspective 
Action 
Points 
• Help farmers to form FPOs to ensure better alignment of supply and 
demand side and create a self-sustaining model. 
• At present, around 2773 FPOs are registered under the Central Sector 
Scheme for Formation and Promotion of 10,000 FPOs by Small Farmers 
Agri-Business Consortium as on 23-08-202315. 
Advantages: 
• Institutional access to finance e.g., Producer Organisation Development 
Fund 
• Convergence of central and state schemes and facilitate scaling up of 
FPOs 
Priority Medium 
 
 
 
  
 
15 Source: SFAC, Govt of India