--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C49
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 57
Word Range: 14231 - 14573
Word Count: 343
--------------------

[Page 57]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
57 
5.2.5.3  Farming clusters 
More than 90% of Indian shrimp farmers belong to small -scale or marginal category 
with operational holdings of less than two hectare per individual. National Centre for 
Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA) was established by MPEDA as an outreach 
organization for uplifting the livelihood of small-scale shrimp farmers by helping them 
form societies and educating them about the better management practices (BMP) for 
safe and sustainable shrimp farming. Respondents found the MPEDA and NaCSA 
officials to be supportive and engaging. They also found the trainings offered to them 
useful.  
Farming clusters aimed for the members to be able to reduce the production cost 
through efficient use of resources, avoiding unwanted chemicals and antibacterial 
agents, and sharing of expenses for developing infrastructure such as deepening of 
canals, seed testing, transportation of inputs, lab, electricity etc. Respondents informed 
that they were not able to procure seeds and feeds from a single entity to bargain for 
a better price.  
Societies facilitate access to institutional finance and insurance. It is a source for linking 
the farmers with processors and exporters for better market access and price. 
However, the benefits of getting better market price or improved market access have  
not been fully realised as all the respondents informed that the market price is 
determined by the agents or exporters who come to procure their shrimps.  
Societies formed by farmers belonging to Scheduled Castes reported that they were 
unable to access institutional credit timely and hence, were unable to fully utilise the 
benefits of the financial assistance scheme within the advance approval period. 
5.2.6 Export oriented aquaculture technology incubation  
Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) is a Research & Development arm of 
MPEDA for diversified aquaculture. The technology developed by RGCA is in 
commercial mode and the deliverable will be extended to the needy farmers & 
entrepreneurs in India and a broad under Technology Transfer agreement. RGCA is 
seen as Aquaculture Technology Incubation Centre of MPEDA to promote aquaculture 
of commercial species for export purposes.