--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C63
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 76 to Page 77
Word Range: 18062 - 18439
Word Count: 378
--------------------

[Page 76]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
76 
6.4.2 Tie-up with Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro and Small 
Enterprises 
Context • The beneficiaries have expressed satisfaction with MPEDA schemes 
construct. Their limited access to credit constrains the beneficiaries from 
availing the schemes in large -scale leaving the assigned funds under -
utilized. 
Action 
Points 
• To address last mile credit delivery, MPEDA may consider tie-up with 
CGTMSE for collateral free loan through eligible financial institutions. 
o At present, the credit guarantee covers up to a loan amount Rs. 2 
crore.  
o Up to Rs. 1 crore, maximum credit guarantee cover available is 
85% of project loan with ceiling of Rs. 85 lakh.  
o Above Rs.1 crore and up to Rs. 2 crore, credit guarantee cover 
available is 75% of project loan with a maximum ceiling of Rs. 
1.50 crores  
o For project loan of more than Rs. 2 crore, credit guarantee cover 
will be limited maximum up to Rs. 2 crore only.  
• The eligible projects under the CGTMSE include – Agricultural input and 
output services, infrastructure development, value addition, seed 
production, seed bank and processing units etc., 
Priority Medium

[Page 77]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
77 
6.4.3  Augment revenue through fee-based data and research 
support 
Context • MPEDA has 3 major divisions viz Aquaculture, Quality Control & 
Marketing, apart from this, MPEDA has functioning three Societies viz (i) 
Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA), the research and 
development arm of MPEDA (ii) Network for Fish Quality Management 
and Sustainable Fishing (NETFISH), the extension arm of MPEDA stands 
for improving the quality of fishery products exported from the country 
and the sustainability of fishery resources as well and (iii) National Centre 
for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA) which provide technical support to 
the primary aquaculture societies ad build capacity among small farmers 
to produce quality shrimps in a sustainable manner. 
• Over the years, MPEDA has built a strong  technical and market 
intelligence knowledge on the marine export development value chain .  
The data, information and best practices can be leveraged for  offering 
value added services to marine exporter.  
Action 
Points 
• Establish technical consulting  and research  wing to provide support to 
marine exporters in the area of process  automation, market intelligence 
and trade related reports. 
Priority Medium