--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C40
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 47
Word Range: 11395 - 11766
Word Count: 372
--------------------

[Page 47]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
47 
The application for advance approval can be filled as a physical application or on e -
mpeda portal using the beneficiary login. 60% of the respondents filled the physical 
application form while 40% filled it online.  
Respondents found the application form easy to understand and fill. They found the 
officials in the MPEDA field office to be supportive throughout the process.  
On an average, the respondents reported that the time elapsed between advance 
approval and final approval range between four and six months.  
100% of the respondents reported that the assistance for mini labs was useful. Only 
20% of the respondents felt an assistance of 60-70% would be more sufficient.  
The in-house laboratories carry out routine microbial and chemical analysis of fish and 
fishery products so as to ensure process controls and production of safe and quality 
seafood intended for exports. In the primary survey, the beneficiaries reported tha t 
they tested at least 2000 samples per day.  
60% of the respondents reported to have 
better control over quality. 20% of the 
respondents reported they could get the test 
results faster . Lower costs of testing were 
realised because private labs tend to charge fee 
based on number of parameters. 
Only concern raised by the respondents was with regard to the media and chemicals 
as they formed part of recurring costs and felt that some assistance to help them 
properly dispose the unused chemicals would be very useful.  
5.2.3.2  Quality Control and ELISA labs 
To monitor the control over the residues of unauthorized substances and 
environmental contaminants in ﬁsh & ﬁshery products, MPEDA has established ﬁve 
Quality Control (QC) Laboratories in five locations across India to provide advanced 
and state-of-the-art testing facilities to the stakeholders. The National Residue Control 
Plan (NRCP) is a statutory requirement to be implemented by the countries for 
exporting to EU countries. The conceptualisation, planning and implementation of 
NRCP is undertaken by the MPEDA QC labs.  
25,591 samples were tested during the 2017 to 2020 period. Majority of the samples 
were tested from either farm or processing plant as seen in Figure 11. 
“We have reduced lab-
related expenses by 40% 
after setting up mini lab.”