--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C62
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 75 to Page 76
Word Range: 17812 - 18061
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 75]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
75 
6.4 Ecosystem Initiatives 
To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of central sector schemes, the following 
recommendations are outlined below: 
6.4.1  NaCSA to facilitate incubation of FPOs for aquaculture 
farmers  
Context • NaCSA is working towards making Aquaculture Sustainable activity to 
improve livelihoods of Coastal villagers, with a “Self Help Group” 
approach to address market concerns through convergence of various 
Stakeholders and move towards formation of societies a nd educated 
them on better management practices (BMP) for safe and sustainable 
shrimp farming. NaCSA also trained these farmer societies to follow 
cluster approach in shrimp farming.  
• While the above process helped farmers from capacity building 
perspective, the bargaining power of farmers continue to be challenge 
from supply and demand perspective 
Action 
Points 
• Help farmers to form FPOs to ensure better alignment of supply and 
demand side and create a self-sustaining model. 
• At present, around 2773 FPOs are registered under the Central Sector 
Scheme for Formation and Promotion of 10,000 FPOs by Small Farmers 
Agri-Business Consortium as on 23-08-202315. 
Advantages: 
• Institutional access to finance e.g., Producer Organisation Development 
Fund 
• Convergence of central and state schemes and facilitate scaling up of 
FPOs 
Priority Medium 
 
 
 
  
 
15 Source: SFAC, Govt of India

[Page 76]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
76 
6.4.2 Tie-up with Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro and Small 
Enterprises 
Context • The beneficiaries have expressed satisfaction with MPEDA schemes 
construct. Their limited access to credit constrains the beneficiaries from 
availing the schemes in large -scale leaving the assigned funds under -
utilized. 
Action 
Points 
• To address last mile credit delivery, MPEDA may consider tie-up with 
CGTMSE for collateral free loan through eligible financial institutions. 
o At present, the credit guarantee covers up to a loan amount Rs. 2 
crore.  
o Up to Rs. 1 crore, maximum credit guarantee cover available is 
85% of project loan with ceiling of Rs. 85 lakh.  
o Above Rs.1 crore and up to Rs. 2 crore, credit guarantee cover 
available is 75% of project loan with a maximum ceiling of Rs. 
1.50 crores  
o For project loan of more than Rs. 2 crore, credit guarantee cover 
will be limited maximum up to Rs. 2 crore only.  
• The eligible projects under the CGTMSE include – Agricultural input and 
output services, infrastructure development, value addition, seed 
production, seed bank and processing units etc., 
Priority Medium