--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C90
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 108 to Page 109
Word Range: 25296 - 25545
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 108]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
108 
Mini Labs 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  Name of interviewer  
2.  Date of interview  DD/MM/YYYY 
3.  Permission for interview granted.  (1) Yes 
(2) No 
4.  Respondent Name   
5.  Designation  
6.  District name  
7.  State name  
 
1. What is the process for establishing mini labs? 
2. How do you budget for the scheme?  
3. How critical is the mini lab in promoting the exports? 
4. Where do you face most challenges in implementing the schemes? 
5. How long does it usually take to process applications related to mini labs?  
6. How is the uptake of online application? If the interviewee says there are challenges 
related to online application, probe further. 
7. What challenges do you face with online applications?  
8. How have you overcome some of these challenges?  
9. What suggestions for improvements with regard to the schemes do you think would 
help?  
10. What are the expectations of beneficiaries regarding these schemes and services offered 
by MPEDA?  
11. How often do you interact with beneficiaries post disbursement? 
12. What were the main concerns expressed by beneficiaries? (Either during your interaction 
or other modes of interactions? 
13. How do you address those concerns? Individual or regular meetings? If there are regular 
meetings, how often do you conduct such meetings? 
14. How do you assess the impact of the scheme?

[Page 109]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
109 
QC & ELISA Labs 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  Name of interviewer  
2.  Date of interview  DD/MM/YYYY 
3.  Permission for interview granted.  (3) Yes 
(4) No 
4.  Respondent Name   
5.  Designation  
6.  District name  
7.  State name  
 
1. What is the mandate of QC & ELISA section? 
2. How are the services offered by QC & ELISA Labs?  
3. How critical is the QC & ELISA labs in promoting the exports? 
4. What is the beneficiary acceptance of QC & ELISA certificate ? 
5. Where do you face most challenges faced by QC & ELISA labs in implementing the 
schemes? 
6. How have you overcome some of these challenges?  
7. How do you compete with private labs? In terms of infrastructure, pricing, market 
acceptance? 
8. How do you compare your labs with private labs?  
9. What suggestions for improvements with regard to the QC & ELISA do you think 
would help?  
10. How do you address the rejection of consignment at destination markets? 
11. What are the expectations of beneficiaries regarding QC & ELISA?  
12. How often do you interact with beneficiaries to understand QC & ELISA related 
services? 
13. What were the main concerns expressed by beneficiaries? (Either during your 
interaction or other modes of interactions? 
14. How do you address those concerns? Individual or regular meetings? If there are 
regular meetings, how often do you conduct such meetings? 
15. How do you assess the impact of the QC & ELISA labs?