--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C86
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 103
Word Range: 24182 - 24488
Word Count: 307
--------------------

[Page 103]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
103 
S No. Particulars Response 
❑ Facilitated linkage with Processors and 
Exporters 
❑ Helped obtain licenses from the Coastal 
Aquaculture Authority (CAA) 
❑ Others: _____ 
3.  What according to you are the 
beneﬁts of being part of the 
cluster? 
❑ Better Prices for input materials 
❑ Better market price for produce 
❑ Better access to markets 
❑ Others: _____ 
❑ No beneﬁts 
4.  How frequently do the NaCSA 
officials visit your farm? 
(1) Weekly  
(2) Monthly  
(3) Quarterly  
(4) Half-yearly  
(5) Annually  
(6) Any other: _____ 
5.  What kind of support do you 
expect from NaCSA? 
 
 
Discussion Guide - Head Office/RD 
Introduction and Consent for the Interview 
Hello Sir/Madam! My name is ---------------- and I am working as a researcher with Athena 
Infonomics India Pvt. Ltd. 
As you would be aware, the Central Sector Scheme of Marine Products Export Development 
Authority (MPEDA) a flagship initiative of the Government of India to promote exports of 
marine products in the country. MPEDA offers various schemes like financial assi stance to 
support high-end or value-added products, financial assistance to move towards certification 
for primary production, financial assistance to set up Mini Labs, Training through different 
divisions and societies, Laboratory services, Certifications  for traceability and Assistance for 
technology incubation.  
For a systematic and comprehensive review, MPEDA has engaged Athena Infonomics India 
Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi to assess the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA for the SFC period, 2017-
2020. The objective of the assessment is to (i) Evaluate the performance/effecti veness of the 
scheme; (ii) Assess the impact of the scheme; (iii) Identify the challenges in the implementation 
of the scheme; (iv) Evaluate the need and effectiveness of trainings; (v) Assess the ease of 
applying to the scheme and (vi) User-friendliness of the online portal of MPEDA.  
Development Section 
S No. Particulars Response