--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 7
Word Range: 392 - 641
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
5 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
TABLE OF  
CONTENTS
Preface 7
Acknowledgments 8
List of Abbreviations 9
Key Highlights of the Report 11
Executive Summary 13
1. Introduction 17
2. Survey Framework and Data Collection Process  20
3. Characteristics of the Sample  25
4. Leveraging E-commerce Platforms 31
5. MSMEs’ Access to Finance 39
6. Export Orientation of Enterprises  43
7. Challenges and the Way Forward 45
References 47
Appendix 50

[Page 6]
6 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India

[Page 7]
7 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
This is the third edition of ICRIER’s annual survey on 
micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in India. 
The survey aims to assess the impact of digitalisation, 
particularly e-commerce platforms, on MSMEs’ 
business growth and development. Using primary 
survey data, it focuses on understanding how digital 
adoption influences enterprise expansion and growth 
prospects in India.
ICRIER’s MSME surveys were initiated in 2021 in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which severely 
impacted the MSME sector. Identifying strategies that 
could help businesses survive during periods of physical 
restrictions became crucial. Digitalisation emerged as a 
key solution, as many firms turned to online platforms 
to reach markets. Consequently, in 2021, a survey 
of around 1,500 manufacturing MSMEs, integrated 
with e-commerce platforms was conducted. An inter-
temporal assessment compared firms’ post-pandemic 
performance to pre-pandemic levels, focusing on online 
sales to evaluate digitalisation’s role in the survival of 
firms.
In the second edition (2022-23), the survey expanded 
into a longitudinal study with a cross-sectional sample, 
equally divided between e-commerce-integrated 
and non-integrated firms. This comparison aimed to 
evaluate how integration impacts business outcomes. 
Around 2,000 MSMEs were surveyed using purposive 
sampling and a cluster-based approach to minimise 
bias. Besides core business performance indicators 
such as sales, employment, and profit, the study also 
briefly assessed issues like MSMEs’ access to finance.
For this edition, 2,365 firms were surveyed in 2024 
to further compare integrated and non-integrated 
businesses. While previous surveys have established 
the key benefits, such as increased sales, higher profit 
margins, and positive effects on employment, this study 
also focuses on examining the second-order effects of 
digitalisation on MSMEs. Specifically, it explores how 
integration enhances access to finance, international 
markets (exports), and information—factors that play 
a crucial role in enterprise growth and development. 
Importantly, this year’s survey design enables a time 
series and cross-sectional data analysis.
The report presents findings based on three main 
aspects: (a) business performance metrics, including 
sales, profitability, hiring, and research and development 
(R&D); (b) access to finance and related challenges; 
and (c) international market access. These insights 
help determine whether e-commerce-integrated firms 
have a higher potential for scaling and enterprise 
development than non-integrated firms.
PREFACE