--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 2908 - 3194
Word Count: 287
--------------------

[Page 15]
15 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
in accessing international markets include information 
gaps and limited access to finance. About 38% of the 
respondents reported that integrating on e-commerce 
platforms can help them overcome some of these 
challenges.
While market access and financing are major hurdles 
for non-integrated firms, the primary challenges 
faced by integrated firms are notably distinct, 
necessitating a two-pronged approach to policy 
intervention. Non-integrated firms continue to face 
the conventional issues, including access to markets 
and finance. Compared to this, top five challenges 
ranked by integrated firms included unavailability of 
skilled manpower to run online business, targeting 
right customers online and marketing products, among 
others. Thus, while it appears that e-commerce has been 
able to subdue the conventional issues to an extent, 
there is a need to address others, which are affecting 
firms ability to fully leverage platforms. Notably, nearly 
48% of integrated MSMEs suggested that there is a 
need to address errors and delays like account de-
listing, and logistics/payment delays, about 44% of 
firms suggested that e-commerce companies should 
work towards checking/reducing frauds. 
Going forward, it is essential for the government 
create a supportive digital ecosystem that empowers 
MSMEs to leverage e-commerce opportunities.  
Taking measures to strengthen cybersecurity, 
enhancing access to technology and bridging 
information gaps will be key to unlocking the sector’s 
untapped potential. Moreover, fostering an ecosystem 
enabling firms to maximise the second-order benefits 
of e-commerce integration is important. This can 
be achieved by developing supportive physical and 
digital infrastructure that harness the advantages 
of e-commerce integration. By addressing these 
challenges, India can further accelerate enterprise 
development, ensuring that MSMEs continue to play 
a vital role in economic growth and employment 
generation. 
Executive Summary