--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C12
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 16 to Page 17
Word Range: 3195 - 3444
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 16]
The Role of Digitalisation in Enterprise 
Development
Annual Survey of Micro, Small  
and Medium Enterprises  
(MSMEs) in India

[Page 17]
17 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Once considered vestiges of the informal sector, 
micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) now 
dominate India’s enterprise landscape. 1 In 2023-24, 
there were about 73.4 million unincorporated non-
agriculture enterprises in the country, employing 120 
million people and contributing 16.5% of the total gross 
value added (GVA).2 There has been a 12.8% growth in 
their number of and a 10% growth in their employment 
count in 2023-24, compared to 2022-23. 
To formally recognise MSMEs in India, a registration 
process was introduced, now known as Udyam 
registration.3 There are over 35 million firms registered 
on the Udyam Portal and over 25 million firms registered 
on the Udyam Assist Portal, which aims to formalise 
the informal sector enterprises. These together employ 
more than 250 million people. 4 MSMEs contribute 
significantly to the national output, employment and 
play a key role in India’s economic development. 
Yet, MSMEs in India grapple with the issue of 
low productivity.  Existing studies highlight that 
productivity levels in MSMEs are about half that of 
large enterprises, with the problem more pronounced 
in emerging market economies. 5 In India, small 
businesses are only one-fourth as productive as large 
enterprises, exhibiting a wider gap than that in most 
emerging market economies. 6 Larger scale generally 
raises productivity on account of improved access to 
intangible capital, global connections, and better access 
to financial capital.7 
The MSME sector is mainly informal and fragmented, 
and so productivity levels tend to be low.  Micro-
enterprises comprise the largest share of India’s MSME 
sector. About 85% of unincorporated firms are own-
account enterprises and more than 98% of the Udyam 
registered enterprises are micro-sized. The share of 
registered enterprises was only around 37% of the 
total unincorporated non-agriculture enterprises in 
2023-24. In the manufacturing sector, however, the 
share of registered enterprises is much smaller. 10 
These structural characteristics inhibit the enterprises’ 
potential to scale up, without which they cannot 
contribute to the national output and employment in a 
sustainable manner. 
Enterprise development, therefore, is key to India’s 
growth and employment generation.  While there 
is no universally accepted definition of ‘enterprise 
development’, it can be understood to mean “the act 
of investing time and capital to help people establish, 
expand or improve business”. 11 It involves establishing 
a new enterprise or scaling up an existing business to 
become a key source of economic growth, employment, 
and wealth creation. 12 In India, where there is a 
predominance of small and informal-sector firms, 
enterprise development initiatives can help firms scale 
up and improve their productivity, thereby boosting 
their output and employment generating potential. 13 
To achieve this, tackling the fundamental challenges 
hindering enterprise development is essential.
Limited access to finance, markets, information, 
and skilled labour are some challenges impeding 
enterprise development in India. 14 Access to finance 
is a significant bottleneck. Financial institutions 
perceive MSMEs as high-risk borrowers due to a 
lack of data on creditworthiness. 15,16 Globally, 79% of 
loans require collateral. MSMEs typically do not have 
fixed assets, machinery, or equipment. 17 On average, 
fixed assets owned per establishment were valued 
at INR 318,000 in 2022-23 for unincorporated non-
agriculture enterprises, and the value was lower (INR 
Introduction
1. Introduction