--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C20
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 23
Word Range: 5425 - 5698
Word Count: 274
--------------------

[Page 23]
23 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Section three of the questionnaire focused on the firms’ 
access to finance. It is well-acknowledged that MSMEs 
face challenges in accessing formal finance, adversely 
impacting their potential to scale up and grow. Firms 
were asked about their sources of finance, interest 
rate paid, the issue of collateral, and, more generally, 
challenges faced in accessing formal finance.
Section four examined the firm’s export orientation and 
potential to access international markets. The previous 
survey found that the more productive firms integrate 
with global trade as they are more competitive. This 
year’s survey dwelled deeper into firm’s potential to 
export, the challenges faced, and whether e-commerce 
platforms enable greater trade integration.
The fifth section of the questionnaire focused on 
key policy considerations. It examined the challenges 
encountered by both integrated and non-integrated 
MSMEs, explored the support and assistance they 
receive or utilise, and gathered their suggestions for 
improvement.
Although the primary survey was conducted in person, 
and the large sample size means the findings are 
largely conclusive, certain limitations remain. First, 
the responses are based on the self-declaration of 
respondents and without verification through books 
of accounts or other published data. Second, as a 
purposive sampling technique was used, the findings 
cannot be generalised beyond a specific homogeneous 
group. Third, as previously mentioned, the survey 
focused solely on Udyam-registered firms, meaning 
it does not account for the informal sector, where a 
significant portion of MSMEs operate. However, the 
survey offers valuable insights, providing a direction for 
the outcome and contributing to a more comprehensive 
understanding of the subject.
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process