--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 9 to Page 11
Word Range: 1273 - 1522
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 9]
9 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AA Account Aggregator
ADB Asian Development Bank
ADBI Asian Development Bank Institute
ASUSE Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises
B20 Business 20
B2C Business-to-Consumer
DPI Digital Public Infrastructure
GVA Gross Value Added
HSC Higher Secondary Certificate
ICRIER Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations
INR Indian Rupee
ITC International Trade Centre
MFI Microfinance Institution
MSE-CDP Micro & Small Enterprises Cluster Development
MSMEs Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
MUDRA Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency
NBFCs Non-Banking Financial Corporations
NCR National Capital Region
OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
RBI Reserve Bank of India
R&D Research and Development
SME Small and Medium Enterprise
SSC Secondary School Certificate
UBS-ED University of Stellenbosch Business School
ULI Unified Lending Interface
UPI Unified Payments Interface

[Page 10]
10 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India

[Page 11]
11 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Key Highlights of the Report
• Post COVID-19, Indian MSMEs have demonstrated remarkable resilience. Contrary 
to the common perception that MSMEs are generally vulnerable and distressed 
units, ICRIER’s study, based on a survey of 2,365 Udyam-registered manufacturing 
sector MSMEs, indicates a robust performance in recent years. Since 2021, a 
majority of surveyed firms have seen sales growth, profit margins have improved, 
and hiring has increased—showcasing enterprise growth and development. 
• Digitalisation is a key driver of accelerated growth. Firms that have integrated with 
e-commerce platforms have outperformed the non-integrated ones, benefiting 
from faster expansion and many more opportunities opening up.
• Beyond business growth, digitalisation offers significant second-order benefits.  
This year’s survey highlights that firms integrated with e-commerce platforms 
experience better access to finance, international markets, and critical business 
information—irrespective of their size—which is significantly contributing to 
enterprise development.
• Access to finance remains a persistent challenge, but it is not insurmountable.  The 
study finds that as firms grow, financial constraints ease. E-commerce integration 
helps mitigate financial barriers by fostering business expansion and creating a 
stronger information ecosystem for MSMEs that helps them overcome a lack of 
collateral.
• E-commerce serves as a gateway to global trade, particularly for micro-enterprises. 
The majority of export-oriented firms that are integrated on e-commerce platforms 
are leveraging e-commerce platforms to reach international markets. These include 
a significant percentage of micro firms also, proving that even smaller and less 
productive firms can access global opportunities through digital channels.
• Looking ahead, fostering the digital transformation of MSMEs can help tap the full 
potential. Enhancing technology access, upgrading skills, and developing a robust 
support ecosystem will enable firms to maximise the benefits of e-commerce 
integration. Strengthening both physical and digital infrastructure is key to unlocking 
the full potential of MSMEs.