--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 7 to Page 8
Word Range: 642 - 891
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 7]
7 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
This is the third edition of ICRIER’s annual survey on 
micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in India. 
The survey aims to assess the impact of digitalisation, 
particularly e-commerce platforms, on MSMEs’ 
business growth and development. Using primary 
survey data, it focuses on understanding how digital 
adoption influences enterprise expansion and growth 
prospects in India.
ICRIER’s MSME surveys were initiated in 2021 in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which severely 
impacted the MSME sector. Identifying strategies that 
could help businesses survive during periods of physical 
restrictions became crucial. Digitalisation emerged as a 
key solution, as many firms turned to online platforms 
to reach markets. Consequently, in 2021, a survey 
of around 1,500 manufacturing MSMEs, integrated 
with e-commerce platforms was conducted. An inter-
temporal assessment compared firms’ post-pandemic 
performance to pre-pandemic levels, focusing on online 
sales to evaluate digitalisation’s role in the survival of 
firms.
In the second edition (2022-23), the survey expanded 
into a longitudinal study with a cross-sectional sample, 
equally divided between e-commerce-integrated 
and non-integrated firms. This comparison aimed to 
evaluate how integration impacts business outcomes. 
Around 2,000 MSMEs were surveyed using purposive 
sampling and a cluster-based approach to minimise 
bias. Besides core business performance indicators 
such as sales, employment, and profit, the study also 
briefly assessed issues like MSMEs’ access to finance.
For this edition, 2,365 firms were surveyed in 2024 
to further compare integrated and non-integrated 
businesses. While previous surveys have established 
the key benefits, such as increased sales, higher profit 
margins, and positive effects on employment, this study 
also focuses on examining the second-order effects of 
digitalisation on MSMEs. Specifically, it explores how 
integration enhances access to finance, international 
markets (exports), and information—factors that play 
a crucial role in enterprise growth and development. 
Importantly, this year’s survey design enables a time 
series and cross-sectional data analysis.
The report presents findings based on three main 
aspects: (a) business performance metrics, including 
sales, profitability, hiring, and research and development 
(R&D); (b) access to finance and related challenges; 
and (c) international market access. These insights 
help determine whether e-commerce-integrated firms 
have a higher potential for scaling and enterprise 
development than non-integrated firms.
PREFACE

[Page 8]
8 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
The authors are grateful to the 2,365 enterprises that 
participated in the field survey across India, and to 
other stakeholders who participated through in-depth 
interviews. This study could not have been completed 
without their responses. 
The authors would like to express their sincere 
gratitude to ICRIER’s Director and Chief Executive 
Deepak Mishra for his continuous guidance and 
encouragement. His inputs have been extremely useful 
in lending a meaningful perspective to the findings of 
the survey. 
The authors are also thankful to the survey partner 
Ipsos, particularly Gajanand Periwal and Mitali Singh, 
for conducting the survey and compiling the results. 
During this study, the authors interacted with various 
stakeholders, including policymakers, e-commerce 
companies, industry associations, representatives from 
the industry, and academic experts. The authors thank 
them for sharing their valuable insights, which helped 
strengthen the analysis. The authors would like to 
extend their gratitude to Walmart for supporting this 
timely study. 
Several experts were consulted while drafting the 
questionnaire, and their inputs were incorporated. 
The authors would particularly like to thank Tirumala 
KV and Renu Lata from the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry, and Anil Bhardwaj from Federation of Indian 
Small and Medium Enterprise for their feedback and 
inputs. The authors are also grateful to BG Mahesh 
and his team at Sahamati for sharing data and insights 
on the Account Aggregator framework. The authors 
are thankful to Radhicka Kapoor and Shravani Prakash 
for their comments and feedback. Gratitude extends 
to Puja Mehra for her detailed review and editorial 
suggestions, which significantly improved the quality 
of the work. 
The authors are also thankful to Harleen Kaur’s finance 
and operations team, Neha Saini’s administrative team, 
documentation officer Chhaya Singh, Information 
Technology manager Rajkumar Shahi, and Anvi 
Mehta’s communications team for working tirelessly 
to ensure the research work was uninterrupted and is 
disseminated in an effective and timely manner.
The authors are also thankful to the Seema Sethi Design 
team for their time and effort towards designing this 
report, Preeti Lourdes John for copy editing and proof 
reading the report and to Genesis Printers for printing.
All errors are that of the authors. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS