--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C38
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 38 to Page 39
Word Range: 10440 - 10689
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 38]
38 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
MSMEs’ access to finance:  
A challenge that is at last subduable. 
Limited access to finance remains one of the most significant challenges for MSMEs, which is a 
primary obstacle to their scaling potential. Our discussions this year highlighted two major issues: 
first, securing finance for working capital, particularly small ticket-size, short-duration loans, 
without which firms struggle to take on multiple orders; and second, high interest rates, largely 
due to lack of collateral or the burden of multiple ongoing loans. During the pilot interviews, some 
firms noted that they were being charged interest rates of around 16-17% with collateral, and 24-
25% without collateral by commercial banks. At these rates, the struggle is real particularly for 
export-oriented firms that compete in global markets, operating often on thin profit margins. 
One exporting MSME, a contract manufacturer, said that stretched working capital is the biggest 
hurdle restricting their ability to scale. Although they have the capacity to increase production, 
their ability to do so is hamstrung by the unaffordability of / inability to secure multiple 
loans simultaneously. That is because many of their orders tend to be unsupported by formal 
documentation (as it often follows much later), which could serve as collateral for loans but in the 
absence of which they end up pledging their machinery instead.
However, digital transformation has led to the emergence of innovative solutions to enhance 
MSMEs’ access to finance, specifically addressing challenges related to collateral and small-
ticket loans. Expert discussions highlighted that data-driven digital public infrastructure, such 
as the Unified Lending Interface and the Account Aggregator Framework, have the potential to 
revolutionise credit access for underserved segments like MSMEs. Additionally, these frameworks 
can facilitate quicker disbursement through digital lending. Their effectiveness, however, depends 
on the depth and quality of available information. 
Another promising solution is digital, collateral-free loans offered by non-banking financial 
corporations (NBFCs) in partnership with e-commerce platforms. These financial intermediaries 
assess loan eligibility based on sellers’ cash-flow data from e-commerce platforms, enabling swift 
disbursement. Primarily designed as small-ticket loans, they help businesses manage working 
capital gaps, inventory, and purchase cycles, among other financial needs.
Addressing this challenge requires a collective effort from commercial and public sector banks, 
NBFCs, microfinance institutions, and private companies. Additionally, regulatory reforms are 
needed to align MSME credit assessment criteria with the sector’s unique characteristics. MSMEs 
are often denied small-ticket loans from banks due to associated risks and the potential unviability 
of such loans given the high costs of operating bank branches. Micro-finance institutions and 
NBFCs are typically better placed to address these financial needs.

[Page 39]
39 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Access to finance remains a challenge for MSMEs but 
diminishes as firm size grows.  Post-COVID-19, about 
70% of MSMEs face financial challenges, which include 
reduced credit availability, difficulties in purchasing 
inventory, and limited scaling ability. Larger firms 
report fewer issues, with 44% of small- and 50% of 
medium-sized firms reporting that they have not faced 
significant financial challenges, compared to 27% of 
micro firms.
The nature of financial challenges differs between 
integrated and non-integrated enterprises.  Integrated 
firms primarily struggle with inventory purchases or 
working capital to fulfil orders, while non-integrated 
firms face reduced credit availability and scaling 
issues. Overall, fewer integrated firms report financial 
challenges compared to non-integrated ones.
While most firms started operations with their own 
capital, bank loans are the primary source of finance 
to continue. More than 50% of the businesses rely on 
bank loans to run their enterprises, while about a third 
use their own capital. The use of bank loans is relatively 
higher among micro-enterprises (55%), compared to 
46-47% of small- and medium-sized firms (Figure 17). 
The previous survey (2023) found that nearly 70% of 
the surveyed firms used their own capital for starting 
their business.35 
Figure 17:
Distribution of firms by major 
source of finance for running 
the enterprise (in %)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
Firms often take small-ticket loans of less than INR 
1 lakh to meet their working capital requirements. 36 
About 45% of the surveyed enterprises had taken such 
loans at some point during their lifespan. Of these, 
approximately 70% were micro-sized. A relatively 
higher share of integrated firms (nearly 50%) availed 
small-ticket loans compared to non-integrated firms 
(40%). Small-sized loans are often essential for survival, 
providing enterprises with the necessary leverage to 
fulfil their orders.
Loans taken do not fully cover the credit needs of the 
surveyed enterprises.  At the time of the survey, 46% 
of the surveyed enterprises had outstanding loans. 
Among these, 40% had loans under INR 10 lakhs, less 
5. MSMEs’ Access to Finance
52%
31%
12%
5%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Bank loan
Own capital
Other sources including
NBFCs, Fintech and MFIs
Informal lenders
(moneylenders, friends,
family)
 Medium Small MicroOverall
MSMEs’ Access to Finance