--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 2285 - 2534
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 14]
14 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
50% of the integrated firms hired new employees post 
integration, out of which nearly 75% firms also hired 
women employees.
Scaling up business is the key reason for joining 
e-commerce platforms, yet offline channels remain 
the dominant mode of sale.  A majority of integrated 
firms joined e-commerce platforms to boost their sales, 
with most enterprises starting to sell on e-commerce 
platforms after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
About 71% of enterprises joined e-commerce platforms 
during or after 2020. However, the survey found that 
while the reliance on online operations, including 
e-commerce platforms, is growing, offline channels 
remain significant medium for sale. 
While previous ICRIER surveys established that 
e-commerce integration positively impacts business 
growth potential, the current study also highlighted 
evidence for interesting second-order effects, which 
can contribute significantly to enterprise development. 
The survey found that as a firm’s size increases, its 
ability to access finance and the international market 
improves. Additionally, firms can gain improved access 
to market information.
The survey found that e-commerce integration 
positively impacts MSMEs’ ability to raise external 
finance at relatively more favourable terms.  By 
enabling firms to expand, e-commerce enhances the 
long-term prospects of MSMEs. The survey revealed 
that relatively larger firms in the MSME segment and 
those integrated with e-commerce performed better 
in terms of financial access. The survey found that the 
average interest rate on MSMEs’ loan is about 12.27%. 
Compared to this, on an average, medium sized firms and 
integrated firms pay a relatively lower rate of interest 
(11.59% and 12.15%, respectively). Additionally, a 
relatively higher share of e-commerce-integrated firms 
could access collateral-free loans. Among integrated 
firms, 51% found their e-commerce presence helpful 
in raising external finance from banks and non-banking 
financial corporations, with medium (60%) and small-
size enterprises (55%) doing better on this front than 
micro firms (48%). Additionally, 30% of integrated firms 
found e-commerce beneficial for raising collateral-free 
loans, with medium firms (33%) leading, followed by 
small (31%) and micro (29%) firms.
Many enterprises made new investments or introduced 
innovative practices after integrating on e-commerce 
platforms, enhancing their long-term growth and 
sustainability. About 62% of the integrated firms 
invested in training their employees, and nearly 50% 
invested in the R&D of new products. More than 90% 
of the firms also introduced innovative practices after 
integrating on platforms. The survey found that while 
business growth remains the most important benefit 
of integrating on e-commerce platforms, medium-
size firms value qualitative benefits (such as access to 
market insights and improvement in product quality) 
more than micro- and small-sized firms. 
As the firm size increases, its export potential too, 
rises, and integrated export-oriented firms use 
e-commerce platforms extensively to export their 
products. About 16% of all surveyed enterprises export 
their products, with medium-size enterprises having 
a higher share of export-oriented firms. The survey 
found that e-commerce offers firms, especially micro-
enterprises, a pathway to participate in global trade. 
About 93% of the export-oriented, integrated firms 
rely on e-commerce platforms to export their products 
to international markets. This includes a considerable 
share of micro-enterprises, highlighting that even 
relatively small firms can utilise e-commerce to reach 
global markets if they choose to export. 
Importantly export potential can be tapped better 
through e-commerce, which can address some 
conventional issues that firms face in exporting their 
products, like information access.  Nearly 21% of 
the firms that do not currently export believe their 
products have export potential. More integrated firms 
(24%) recognise this potential than non-integrated 
ones (18%). Some of the most prominent challenges 
Executive Summary