--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C35
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 36
Word Range: 9547 - 9939
Word Count: 393
--------------------

[Page 36]
36 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
on platforms, and try to maintain high product ratings 
to market their products. A relatively larger percentage 
of micro-enterprises use these techniques (36-
39%). Comparatively, a larger percentage of medium 
enterprises invest in prompt customer service (37%), 
improving shipping performance (31%), and monitoring 
competition (30%), among others. 
A larger percentage of integrated firms also sell 
through other online channels, thereby improving their 
online reach. The survey found that compared to non-
integrated firms (11%), a much larger share of integrated 
firms (65%) sells through other online channels, such 
as their websites and social commerce. This indicates 
that, more generally, e-commerce-integrated firms 
have greater digital adoption for revenue generation 
than non-integrated firms. As depicted in Figure 15, 
a relatively larger share of medium- (46%) and small-
sized firms (45%) are using other online means to sell 
their products than micro firms (35%). This is primarily 
because comparatively bigger size firms have greater 
capacities to manage multiple sales channels and run 
their website, while a majority of micro firms continue 
to rely on e-commerce platforms. Greater outreach and 
higher margins are the most cited reasons for selling 
through own platforms compared to marketplaces. 
Figure 15: Distribution of enterprises by sales through online channels like own website or social 
commerce other than e-commerce platforms and their size (in %) (all firms)
Source: Authors’ computation of data from ICRIER’s MSME survey
Platform charges and compliance burdens are the main 
barriers to e-commerce adoption, with critical concerns 
varying by enterprise size.  Medium enterprises cite 
platform charges, skilled staff shortages, and returns 
as major concerns. Micro-enterprises prefer traditional 
sales and face strong platform competition, while many 
small enterprises struggle with knowledge and staffing 
gaps.
About 1/5th of non-integrated firms joined but 
quit e-commerce platforms.  The primary reason for 
quitting the platform was lack of knowledge (43% of 
the respondents who quit platforms). An equal number 
of firms left these platforms over product returns. 
A relatively higher percentage of micro-enterprises 
struggled with skills and capacity constraints, more 
medium firms faced returns and staffing issues, while 
a relatively larger percentage of small enterprises 
cited competition as a prominent reason for quitting 
e-commerce platforms (Figure 16). 
38%
35%
45%
46%
62%
65%
55%
54%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Overall
 Micro
 Small
 Medium
 Yes  No
Leveraging E-commerce Platforms