--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 8
Word Range: 1 - 1212
Word Count: 1,212
--------------------

[Page 1]
1 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Indian Council for Research on  
International Economic Relations
THE ROLE OF DIGITALISATION IN ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
ANNUAL SURVEY OF MICRO, SMALL 
AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN INDIA
TANU M. GOYAL 
HAVISHAYE PURI 
RIYA KHANNA
MARCH 2025

[Page 3]
3 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
MARCH 2025
Indian Council for Research on  
International Economic Relations
THE ROLE OF DIGITALISATION IN ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
ANNUAL SURVEY OF MICRO, SMALL 
AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN INDIA

[Page 4]
Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India: 
The Role of Digitalisation in Enterprise Development 
Tanu M Goyal, Havishaye Puri and Riya Khanna
ISBN: 978-81-986536-3-5
Copyright © 2025 by the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) 
Published by the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) in March 2025
Recommended citation: Goyal, T.M., Puri, H. & Khanna, R. (2025). Annual Survey of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India: The Role of Digitalisation in Enterprise Development. Indian Council 
for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) 
All Rights Reserved 
No part of this report shall be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted by any means, 
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of 
the copyright holder(s) and/or publishers. Photographs in this report: All photographs have been digitally 
procured by ICRIER, with permission from commercial websites selling photographs, official field trips and 
by courtesy of respective organizations and individuals for the purpose of publishing this report.
Disclaimer 
Opinions and recommendations in the report are exclusively of the author(s) and not of any other individual 
or institution including ICRIER. This report has been prepared in good faith on the basis of information 
available as on the date of publication. All interactions and transactions with industry sponsors and their 
representatives have been transparent and conducted in an open, honest and independent manner as 
enshrined in ICRIER’s Memorandum of Association. ICRIER does not accept any corporate funding that 
comes with a mandate not aligned to ICRIER’s research agenda. The corporate funding of an ICRIER activity 
does not, in any way, imply ICRIER’s endorsement of the views of the sponsoring organisation or its products 
or policies. ICRIER does not conduct research that is focused on any specific product or service provided by 
the corporate sponsor

[Page 5]
5 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
TABLE OF  
CONTENTS
Preface 7
Acknowledgments 8
List of Abbreviations 9
Key Highlights of the Report 11
Executive Summary 13
1. Introduction 17
2. Survey Framework and Data Collection Process  20
3. Characteristics of the Sample  25
4. Leveraging E-commerce Platforms 31
5. MSMEs’ Access to Finance 39
6. Export Orientation of Enterprises  43
7. Challenges and the Way Forward 45
References 47
Appendix 50

[Page 6]
6 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India

[Page 7]
7 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
This is the third edition of ICRIER’s annual survey on 
micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in India. 
The survey aims to assess the impact of digitalisation, 
particularly e-commerce platforms, on MSMEs’ 
business growth and development. Using primary 
survey data, it focuses on understanding how digital 
adoption influences enterprise expansion and growth 
prospects in India.
ICRIER’s MSME surveys were initiated in 2021 in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which severely 
impacted the MSME sector. Identifying strategies that 
could help businesses survive during periods of physical 
restrictions became crucial. Digitalisation emerged as a 
key solution, as many firms turned to online platforms 
to reach markets. Consequently, in 2021, a survey 
of around 1,500 manufacturing MSMEs, integrated 
with e-commerce platforms was conducted. An inter-
temporal assessment compared firms’ post-pandemic 
performance to pre-pandemic levels, focusing on online 
sales to evaluate digitalisation’s role in the survival of 
firms.
In the second edition (2022-23), the survey expanded 
into a longitudinal study with a cross-sectional sample, 
equally divided between e-commerce-integrated 
and non-integrated firms. This comparison aimed to 
evaluate how integration impacts business outcomes. 
Around 2,000 MSMEs were surveyed using purposive 
sampling and a cluster-based approach to minimise 
bias. Besides core business performance indicators 
such as sales, employment, and profit, the study also 
briefly assessed issues like MSMEs’ access to finance.
For this edition, 2,365 firms were surveyed in 2024 
to further compare integrated and non-integrated 
businesses. While previous surveys have established 
the key benefits, such as increased sales, higher profit 
margins, and positive effects on employment, this study 
also focuses on examining the second-order effects of 
digitalisation on MSMEs. Specifically, it explores how 
integration enhances access to finance, international 
markets (exports), and information—factors that play 
a crucial role in enterprise growth and development. 
Importantly, this year’s survey design enables a time 
series and cross-sectional data analysis.
The report presents findings based on three main 
aspects: (a) business performance metrics, including 
sales, profitability, hiring, and research and development 
(R&D); (b) access to finance and related challenges; 
and (c) international market access. These insights 
help determine whether e-commerce-integrated firms 
have a higher potential for scaling and enterprise 
development than non-integrated firms.
PREFACE

[Page 8]
8 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
The authors are grateful to the 2,365 enterprises that 
participated in the field survey across India, and to 
other stakeholders who participated through in-depth 
interviews. This study could not have been completed 
without their responses. 
The authors would like to express their sincere 
gratitude to ICRIER’s Director and Chief Executive 
Deepak Mishra for his continuous guidance and 
encouragement. His inputs have been extremely useful 
in lending a meaningful perspective to the findings of 
the survey. 
The authors are also thankful to the survey partner 
Ipsos, particularly Gajanand Periwal and Mitali Singh, 
for conducting the survey and compiling the results. 
During this study, the authors interacted with various 
stakeholders, including policymakers, e-commerce 
companies, industry associations, representatives from 
the industry, and academic experts. The authors thank 
them for sharing their valuable insights, which helped 
strengthen the analysis. The authors would like to 
extend their gratitude to Walmart for supporting this 
timely study. 
Several experts were consulted while drafting the 
questionnaire, and their inputs were incorporated. 
The authors would particularly like to thank Tirumala 
KV and Renu Lata from the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry, and Anil Bhardwaj from Federation of Indian 
Small and Medium Enterprise for their feedback and 
inputs. The authors are also grateful to BG Mahesh 
and his team at Sahamati for sharing data and insights 
on the Account Aggregator framework. The authors 
are thankful to Radhicka Kapoor and Shravani Prakash 
for their comments and feedback. Gratitude extends 
to Puja Mehra for her detailed review and editorial 
suggestions, which significantly improved the quality 
of the work. 
The authors are also thankful to Harleen Kaur’s finance 
and operations team, Neha Saini’s administrative team, 
documentation officer Chhaya Singh, Information 
Technology manager Rajkumar Shahi, and Anvi 
Mehta’s communications team for working tirelessly 
to ensure the research work was uninterrupted and is 
disseminated in an effective and timely manner.
The authors are also thankful to the Seema Sethi Design 
team for their time and effort towards designing this 
report, Preeti Lourdes John for copy editing and proof 
reading the report and to Genesis Printers for printing.
All errors are that of the authors. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS