--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-100-C18
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-100
Page Range: Page 22
Word Range: 4925 - 5174
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 22]
22 | Annual Survey of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India
Handicraft manufacturing unit in Srinagar, Jammu 
and Kashmir
Instead of concentrating on unincorporated-sector 
enterprises, which have unique characteristics, certain 
inherent biases, and limited comparability, this study 
focused on Udyam-registered firms as they offer a more 
consistent basis for comparing firms. Approximately 
98% of Udyam-registered firms are micro-sized, 2% are 
small, and around 1% are medium. While the overall 
pattern is similar in the study’s sample, small and 
medium-size firms are adequately represented. 
Based on prior experience, secondary research, and 
exhaustive local information, multiple industrial belts/
clusters were identified in each city using purposive 
sampling. Once the cluster was identified, a known 
landmark was selected as the ‘starting point’ for 
applying the right-hand rule method to identify MSMEs 
within a selected cluster. The investigator then began 
visiting the MSMEs located on the right side of the 
starting point to ensure no MSMEs are left from within 
the identified sectors in the selected clusters.
Screener questions were used to determine the 
eligibility of the targeted respondents. Only the eligible 
respondents were surveyed. Structured questionnaires 
were used to conduct interviews. The questionnaire 
was translated into the language most commonly 
spoken in the respondent’s state. Language experts 
carefully assessed the translations to ensure the 
questions retained their original meanings. Show cards 
and a ‘definition sheet’ were shown to respondents, 
wherever required, along with the questionnaire.
To make appointments with respondents, interviewers 
sent emails, made telephonic calls, or physically visited 
their premises. Based on the respondents’ approval, 
interviewers either sought an immediate interview or 
an appointment to capture their responses later. Only 
the owner or key decision-maker of the MSME was 
interviewed. All surveys were conducted face-to-face 
and lasted about 30 minutes each. A computer-assisted 
personal interviewing device was used to record the 
responses. All responses were geo-tagged.
The survey questionnaire was divided into five sections: 
The first section was designed to capture the 
enterprise’s innate characteristics, including its 
ownership structure, the education level, age, and 
gender of the owner, and age of the enterprise. A firm’s 
inherent characteristics are crucial to adopting digital 
technologies.32 Moreover, this information is useful in 
creating a profile for the enterprise and cross-tabulating 
data on the firms’ characteristics to examine trends by 
firm size, ownership, age, and other factors. 
The second section documented firm performance, 
emphasising business growth, investments and 
innovation. It included questions on the performance 
of the enterprises over time in general, and post-
integration. All these aspects contribute to enterprise 
development and its potential to scale up. Data from 
the past three years is presented in the report to track 
the firm’s progress across key indicators over time. 
Additionally, this section delved into the motivations 
for adopting e-commerce, as well as the reasons for 
not doing so. 
Survey Framework and Data Collection Process