--- PAGE 1 ---
1
Draft
Enhancing MSMEs Competitiveness in India 


--- PAGE 2 ---
Disclaimer
Authors
This report was prepared by the Institute for Competitiveness for NITI Aayog. The Institute for Competitiveness did 
not receive financial assistance under the NITI Aayog research scheme to prepare it. The NITI Aayog logo indicates 
collaboration and acknowledgement of the work’s relevance for the MSME policy domain. However, NITI Aayog does 
not endorse or assume responsibility for the report’s findings and conclusions. All data cited, including that from 
verified Government sources such as the PLFS and the UDYAM Portal, have been interpreted solely by the Institute for 
Competitiveness. While due care has been exercised to ensure the accuracy of the analysis and arguments supported 
by existing literature, the possibility of alternate interpretations, especially as the MSME database evolves, cannot be 
ruled out.
Amit Kapoor
Honorary Chairman,
Institute for Competitiveness
Sheen Zutshi
Research Manager,
Institute for Competitiveness
Mukul Anand
Researcher,
Institute for Competitiveness

--- PAGE 3 ---
Competitiveness 
in India
Enhancing MSMEs

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
MESSAGE


--- PAGE 7 ---
MESSAGE


--- PAGE 9 ---
9
MESSAGE


--- PAGE 11 ---
11
MESSAGEMESSAGE


--- PAGE 13 ---
AMIT KAPOOR
Honorary Chairman, 
Institute for Competitiveness
MSMEs form the backbone of India’s economic landscape and serve as the cradle of entrepreneurship. They 
encompass a diverse spectrum- from traditional artisans and craftspersons with legacies spanning decades to cutting-
edge defence and advanced engineering enterprises. These businesses preserve the nation’s rich heritage and lay the 
groundwork for a dynamic future. To bridge this rich legacy with the challenges of the present, it is essential to delve 
into the factors shaping MSME competitiveness and identify pathways to overcome these barriers for sustained growth 
and innovation.
The central tenet of this study is to unravel the complexities of MSME competitiveness. MSMEs face challenges 
that, if addressed, can unlock significant growth. High-risk perception and costs limit formal lending to MSMEs. 
Inadequate finance hinders R&D investment and upgrades. Many SMEs lack access to global technology and struggle 
with domestic innovations due to limited resources and high costs. MSMEs struggle to access capacity-building 
opportunities due to financial illiteracy, skill gaps, and lack of awareness of government initiatives. Most MSMEs operate 
informally, restricting their access to finance and global markets. They face difficulties in branding and understanding 
market trends, which limits expansion, leaving them vulnerable to market fluctuations due to weak branding and limited 
product variety.
Focusing on MSMEs in five key sectors- automotive, textile manufacturing, chemical, pharmaceutical, and food 
processing this study employs a cluster-based approach to analyse the performance of MSMEs in India. By integrating 
firm-level data from CMIE’s Prowess database with labour force data from the PLFS and utilising Porter’s Diamond 
model alongside NIC codes, the research offers a comprehensive view of MSMEs’ economic structure, cluster 
distribution in India, and regional strengths. This analysis is enriched by an evaluation of the MSME policy framework at 
both national and state levels, assessing its effectiveness and regional coordination to better understand the collective 
impact of these policies. This combined approach bridges gaps in existing literature, providing actionable insights for 
designing targeted cluster programs and policies to foster MSME growth, innovation, and sustainability.
I extend my heartfelt gratitude to Shri Ishtiyaque Ahmed, Senior Adviser (Industry & Foreign Investment), and his 
team at Vertical Industry/MSME at NITI Aayog for their support throughout the preparation of this report. I also 
thank Shri Suman Bery, Vice Chairperson of NITI Aayog, and Shri B. V. R. Subrahmanyam, CEO of NITI Aayog, for 
their encouragement, which has been instrumental in shaping the focus of this study. Finally, I would also like to 
acknowledge the entire Research Team at the Institute for Competitiveness (IFC) for their critical input and tireless 
efforts, which have helped immensely to give this report its present shape. This report, in its current form, is a 
testament to the commitment and collaborative efforts of everyone involved, ensuring its relevance and meaningful 
impact for all stakeholders.
MESSAGE


--- PAGE 15 ---
The author is grateful to Shri Suman K. Bery, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, Dr VK Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog and Shri 
B.V.R. Subrahmanyam, CEO, NITI Aayog, for their unwavering support throughout the preparation of the report. Their 
guidance and encouragement were invaluable throughout the entire process. The role of leadership was instrumental 
in facilitating the development of this report. 
Furthermore, the author extends heartfelt gratitude to Shri Ishtiyaque Ahmed, Program Director, Industry and Foreign 
Investment Division, and his team for their support throughout the report’s preparation. His steadfast support and 
incisive feedback were pivotal in shaping the report’s direction and depth. 
Finally, the author would also like to acknowledge the entire research team at the Institute for Competitiveness for 
their critical input and tireless efforts, which have helped immensely to give this report its present shape. This report, 
in every form, results from the commitment and collaborative efforts of everyone involved, ensuring its relevance and 
meaningful impact for all stakeholders. 
Acknowledgements
AMIT KAPOOR
Honorary Chairman, 
Institute for Competitiveness

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
Executive 
Summary


--- PAGE 17 ---
17
This report is structured into four key chapters, each designed 
to deepen our understanding of India’s Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises ( MSMEs) competitiveness. 
T 
he exploration begins by examining the challenges faced by Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and 
progresses toward a detailed analysis of competitive frameworks, cluster dynamics, and policy effectiveness. Each 
chapter builds upon the previous one, culminating in robust recommendations for strengthening MSME competitiveness. 
The opening chapter “Understanding MSMEs Challenges for Enhancing Competitiveness” delves into the array 
of challenges confronting MSMEs—ranging from financial constraints and technological gaps to skill shortages and 
regulatory hurdles. By thoroughly examining these barriers, the chapter lays a foundation for identifying key areas that 
require strategic intervention. Overcoming these challenges is pivotal for creating an environment where MSMEs can 
thrive and compete effectively.
Building on the insights from the first chapter, the second chapter “Competitiveness Framework – MSMEs and the 
Path to Prosperity ” introduces a competitiveness framework rooted in cluster theory. This framework charts a path 
to prosperity by emphasizing the role of collaborative ecosystems, where enterprises, suppliers, and institutions work 
in synergy. By leveraging these clusters, MSMEs can enhance efficiency, spur innovation, and respond more adeptly to 
market demands, thus gaining a competitive edge.
The third chapter “Understanding MSMEs Competitiveness in India Using Clusters Approach”. The cluster approach 
is employed to comprehensively understand the performance and dynamics of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) 
within the Indian economy. Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) data indicates that 74.3 percent of workers engaged 
in proprietary and partnership enterprises are involved in the non-agriculture sector. This information is instrumental in 
comprehending the nature of employment within these enterprises and highlights the significance of activities in informal 
sector. Understanding SMEs’ performance from PLFS data allows for a more nuanced analysis of their contribution, 
employment patterns, and overall impact on the informal sector. This, in addition to UDYAM registration portal, can 
contribute to filling the gaps in understanding the MSMEs. The UDYAM portal data reveals that a significant proportion, 
specifically 81 per cent, of MSMEs operate as proprietorships, with 80 per cent falling into the Microenterprise category. 
Recognising the prevalence of such ownership structures, it becomes crucial to analyse and assess the performance 
of these enterprises collectively, which the cluster approach 
facilitates.
The final chapter is the review of  the policy landscape governing 
MSMEs at national and state level, evaluating the effectiveness of 
current measures aimed at bolstering competitiveness. It reveals 
that despite numerous policies, gaps in awareness, stakeholder 
engagement, and adaptability limit their impact. The chapter 
concludes with recommendations for a more robust, adaptive 
policy framework that responds to the evolving needs of MSMEs, 
emphasizing continuous monitoring, feedback integration, and 
data-driven adjustments.

--- PAGE 18 ---
18
Learnings and Recommendations 
from National-Level Policies
Access to Finance1.
 » One of the foremost learnings at the national level pertains to the crucial role of the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust 
for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) in facilitating credit for MSMEs. However, the Trust currently operates 
without the desired level of regulatory oversight, leading to challenges in balancing fund availability with the financial 
discipline required for sustainable growth. Bringing the CGTMSE under a robust regulatory authority could help 
mitigate these concerns. 
 » Another important measure is to use CGTMSE to promote women’s entrepreneurship. This could be done by 
increasing the guaranteed coverage to 100% for businesses led by women founders. Additionally, reducing CGTMSE 
premium rates can significantly increase its adoption by micro and small enterprises, which often struggle to afford 
higher premiums. Transparency around premium rates is also essential, and banks should be required to disclose 
these details on their websites or on the CGTMSE portal. 
 » Beyond strengthening CGTMSE, Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) have emerged as a vital source of credit 
for MSMEs, especially micro-sized enterprises in remote areas. Their quicker lending decisions, niche specialization, 
and faster services have contributed to NBFCs’ rapid growth in the MSME credit space. However, NBFCs’ borrowing 
costs from banks are typically high due to collateral requirements and risk premiums, making it challenging for them 
to offer competitive interest rates to MSMEs. This situation underlines the need for better on-lending structures 
and the provision of lower-rate wholesale funding to NBFCs. The Standing Committee on Finance (17th Lok Sabha) 
acknowledged this gap and suggested the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) expand its balance 
sheet to provide more extensive wholesale financing to NBFCs. While the Ministry of Finance has indicated that 
SIDBI is well-capitalized for its projected growth, the Committee insists on further scaling SIDBI’s role to directly 
invest in smaller NBFCs, thereby improving their governance, operational capacity, and access to affordable funds. 
 » Another recommendation involves reinstating earlier norms under Priority Sector Lending (PSL), allowing bank 
loans extended to NBFCs for further lending to MSMEs to be classified as indirect finance to MSMEs. This would 
incentivize banks to support NBFCs, especially when combined with credit insurance schemes by IRDAI that could 
mitigate NBFCs’ risk perceptions and encourage the flow of credit to micro-enterprises. In combination, these 
reforms aim to strengthen the credit ecosystem for MSMEs and promote financial inclusivity.
Addressing Skilling Challenges 
Faced by MSMEs
2.
Skilling remains a cornerstone for MSME competitiveness and growth. Present data indicates that a significant percentage 
of India’s workforce falls under Skill Level 1 (low-skilled) and Skill Level 2 (semi-skilled), with fewer workers at higher skill 
levels. According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the proportion of the workforce aged 15 to 59 lacking formal 
vocational or technical training, while declining, still remains substantial.  To bridge this skills gap, forging partnerships 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
Technological Development in 
MSMEs
3.
Enhancing Supply Chains
The technological development of MSMEs is closely linked with robust supply chain integration. Improved supply chains 
can help MSMEs harness global value chains (GVCs), boosting their exports and competitiveness. Although India’s 
GVC participation has risen over the years, it remains below that of major economies and regional competitors. The 
government can facilitate process innovation, reduce costs, and improve product management within MSME clusters 
by prioritising efficient logistics, digital linkages, and smart trade infrastructure. Streamlining supply chains also brings 
broader benefits, such as stabilizing food prices by reducing bottlenecks in essential commodities. In sectors like 
textiles and food processing, targeted initiatives—ranging from building electronic linkage platforms to funding trade 
fairs—can spur innovation and market access. 
between government bodies, educational institutions, and industries can prove invaluable. These collaborations can 
create new, dynamic curricula and training modules, including shorter, flexible programs, that meet the evolving 
needs of MSMEs. To ensure training relevancy, boards or councils mandated with periodically reviewing and updating 
occupational standards should be formed. Further, cost-sharing or grant-based models to subsidize the costs of 
training and technology adoption for micro-enterprises can go a long way in encouraging widespread participation. 
By identifying granular skill demands, states can better align training programs with industrial requirements, thus 
boosting MSME productivity.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) holds immense potential for MSMEs, but adoption barriers remain high. Many MSMEs lack 
familiarity with India’s data protection laws and are unaware of how to ensure data compliance when integrating AI. 
Government-led awareness campaigns and simplified guidelines on data protection can encourage responsible AI use 
and reduce the risk of non-compliance. A shortage of qualified AI professionals is another critical hurdle: many MSMEs 
lack the in-house expertise to evaluate, select, and implement AI solutions. Collaborative platforms connecting MSMEs 
with academic institutions, AI consultants, and larger tech companies can bridge this skills gap. Affordability is another 
persistent challenge, especially with AI tools, as computing infrastructure and training costs remain prohibitive for 
smaller enterprises. Targeted financial assistance—such as grants, subsidies, tax incentives, or low-interest loans—and 
cloud-based, pay-as-you-go AI solutions can make advanced technologies more accessible. Such interventions would 
align with the finding that most MSMEs want AI to be both affordable and equitably accessible.
Enhance Risk Management through Digital and Insurance Solutions
Integrating AI in MSMEs
MSMEs benefit greatly from affordable digital risk management solutions, particularly those in sectors with extended 
supply chains like food processing. Real-time monitoring tools, such as sensor-based tracking, can reduce inventory 
risks, optimize logistics, and limit damage during transit. Insurance combined with these digital tools adds another 
layer of protection against operational shocks. Drawing on experiences from countries like Thailand and Malaysia, 
where combining sensor-based tracking with insurance has proven successful, India could encourage a similar model 
for its MSMEs. Collaborations between insurance providers and technology firms that offer training, awareness, and 
affordable insurance packages could greatly enhance MSME resilience.

--- PAGE 20 ---
20
Increasing Institutes for 
Collaboration (IFCs)
4.
Institutions for Collaboration (IFCs), as conceptualized by Porter and Emmons, include both formal and informal actors 
that foster cluster development. These bodies support R&D, productivity enhancement, and process innovation, all 
vital to MSMEs that typically struggle with limited resources. India’s Micro and Small Enterprises-Cluster Development 
Programme (MSE-CDP) has instituted Common Facilitation Centres (CFCs). Still, there is a pressing need to elevate 
them to align with the standards of robust IFCs.Strengthening existing or emerging IFCs could involve consolidating 
membership, fostering knowledge networks among universities, private entities, and research institutes, and promoting 
consistent information sharing. Such collaborative entities can accelerate product development, bridge skill gaps, and 
ensure that MSMEs have better access to the latest technologies. Additionally, re-examining property rights frameworks 
is important to build trust among stakeholders, so that proprietary information shared within IFCs remains protected.
The widespread adoption of state-level MSME policies has fostered a conducive environment for enterprise growth, yet 
awareness and effective utilization remain limited. States should improve information dissemination through targeted 
awareness campaigns, ensuring that MSMEs fully understand and access available schemes. Enhanced stakeholder 
engagement during policy formulation, incorporating direct feedback from MSMEs and industry stakeholders, can 
tailor support measures to actual needs, addressing critical gaps like inadequate financial and technical support. Not 
all states have MSME specific policies, states which have those policies it is not updated.  In access to finance, states 
should reconsider existing interest subsidy schemes that often exclude micro-enterprises due to restrictive turnover 
requirements. Alternative financing mechanisms—such as cash-flow-based lending, equity financing, factoring, and 
venture capital—should be explored to meet the unique needs of smaller firms. Expanding structured insurance 
frameworks beyond isolated examples can offer essential risk mitigation, enabling MSMEs to invest more confidently.
Market access for MSMEs can be improved by addressing capacity constraints in diversification and scaling. Expanding 
export incentives to include smaller enterprises and investing in digital marketing and e-commerce training can bridge 
skills and resource gaps. Partnerships with logistics providers and investments in infrastructure will facilitate seamless 
supply chains, allowing MSMEs to penetrate broader domestic and global markets. States should design modular, short-
term, and flexible training programs to bolster skill development, particularly targeting rural micro-enterprises. Free or 
highly subsidised online or on-site training can reduce opportunity costs and update workforce skills in line with industry 
advancements. 
Improving access to technology and infrastructure requires a tiered approach. States should focus on foundational 
needs such as reliable power, co-working spaces, and shared machinery for micro-units while supporting advanced R&D 
for medium and larger enterprises. Efforts to reduce infrastructure costs—through renewable energy solutions, shared 
power facilities, and affordable industrial park rentals—will enhance operational stability. Finally, consistent monitoring, 
Learnings from the State’s MSME 
policies

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
Rethinking Clusters for MSME 
Development
1.
India’s cluster policy dates back to 1987 and draws upon ideas of collective efficiency. However, it diverges from global 
best practices from developed countries such as the United States and the European Union. These regions use cluster 
mapping as a sophisticated tool for informing policy decisions and promoting cross-border collaborations. 
There is a need for India to reimagine its cluster development approach; policymakers must redefine clusters . Clusters 
are not just sectors – they capture the geographic footprint of economic activities, not because they belong to the 
same statistical classification but because industries are systematically related through local spillovers and linkages. The 
Indian definition of clusters aligns more closely with the concepts of Collective Efficiency (as proposed by Schmitz) and 
certain elements of Flexible Specialization (according to Piore and Sabel) A well-structured cluster policy can unlock 
synergies between SMEs, research institutions, universities, and Institutes for collaborations, forming robust ecosystems. 
Personalized services to SMEs—such as diagnosing innovation capabilities, mapping out growth roadmaps, and bridging 
technology gaps—can catalyze productivity gains. By fostering stronger ties between universities and industries, clusters 
can facilitate knowledge transfer and accelerate the commercialization of research.
Learnings from Cluster-Level 
Analysis
evaluation, and transparent communication would benefit policy formulation and implementation. Strengthening 
stakeholder participation via MSME-specific forums, refining industrial statistics, and public sharing of policy evaluation 
data will foster evidence-based decision-making and continuous improvement, ultimately creating a more resilient and 
competitive MSME ecosystem at the state level.
Many textile clusters rely heavily on upstream activities like raw material processing.Policymakers can encourage a move 
toward downstream activities that add higher value—such as designing finished garments or specialized fabric. This 
pivot could involve partnering with design schools, modernizing capital equipment, and fostering digital supply chain 
linkages, as highlighted by the Economic Survey 2024’s emphasis on upgrading weaving and processing segments. 
Notable regions with strong textile specializations include Surat, Ludhiana, and Tiruppur, where reinforcing cluster 
efficiency can foster economies of scale, streamline production, and improve branding for global markets.
Cluster-Specific Recommendations2.
Textile Manufacturing 
and Apparel

--- PAGE 22 ---
22
Enterprises in chemicals often face skilled labor shortages and complex regulatory requirements. Streamlining product 
approvals, fostering compliance training, and enabling marketing support can reduce the cost burden on smaller firms. 
Collaboration with local universities to expand the pool of researchers, engineers, and chemical experts can fill knowledge 
gaps, while improved marketing and supply chain optimization can help MSMEs move downstream in the value chain.
Automotive MSMEs typically prioritize tangible assets over R&D and innovation. Encouraging a shift toward intangible 
investments through tax incentives or grants could help firms develop more sophisticated offerings. Dependence on large 
players for supply contracts often leaves smaller enterprises with limited bargaining power. By creating platforms that 
offer direct market linkages and promoting cooperative frameworks in the value chain, MSMEs can enhance technical 
skills and diversify their client bases. Regions like Gurgaon, Rewari, and Pune already exhibit cluster advantages, and 
targeted policy support can strengthen their innovation ecosystems.
Chemical 
Cluster
Automotive 
Cluster
India’s food processing sector exhibits regional fragmentation, which undercuts its growth potential. Linking farmers 
with processors is crucial, ensuring a seamless flow of raw materials and fostering value addition. Sensor-based tracking 
systems combined with cargo insurance, as seen in Malaysia and Thailand, can reduce losses in transit. State-level 
branding guidance for agricultural products, the creation of specialized food parks, and technology upgradation are also 
crucial. Strengthening this cluster is particularly urgent in the country’s northeastern and eastern belts, which remain 
underutilized despite their agricultural diversity.
Food Processing 
Cluster

--- PAGE 23 ---
23


--- PAGE 24 ---
24
Table of Contents

--- PAGE 25 ---
Table of Contents
Introduction
Chapter 1: Understanding 
MSMEs Challenges for Enhancing 
Competitiveness
Chapter 2: Competitiveness 
Framework: MSMEs and the Path to 
Prosperity
Chapter 3: Understanding MSMEs 
competitiveness in India using Clusters
Cluster Level Analysis
Chapter 4: Policies for MSMEs in India
Learnings and Recommendations
Key Takeaways
Conclusion
Bibliography
24
34
58
64
76
90
111
112
114
50

--- PAGE 26 ---
26
Introduction 


--- PAGE 27 ---
27
90%
50%
W
ithin the realm of global economics, micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises 
(MSMEs) emerge as the cornerstone of prosperity, embodying the largest and most 
influential segment across all economies (Storey, Pinch, & Mason, 1991). They constitute 
a vast majority of businesses worldwide and play a pivotal role in job creation and global 
economic growth. 
Despite being the largest business segment globally in terms of numbers, SMEs have 
been found to participate less in Global Value chains (GVC) than the large enterprises. 
(Chaisse & Rodríguez-Chiffelle, 2019)
Participation in Global Value Chains (GVC) refers to the extent to which a nation’s exports 
are embedded within multi-stage international trade processes. This concept refers to 
the integration of domestic value added into the exports of other nations, as well as the 
incorporation of foreign value added into a nation’s exports. The proportion of a nation’s 
total exports that is comprised of GVC participation provides a quantitative assessment of 
the extent to which its export sector relies on GVCs. GVC metrics also play a crucial role in 
assessing the extent to which sectors depend on international manufacturing networks.
(UNCTAD, 2013).
GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange 
of investment, knowledge, and managerial practices that are 
in line with global standards, thereby significantly bolstering 
domestic businesses
They make up about
of businesses 
globally and are 
responsible for over
of the total global employment. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28
GVCs are crucial for engaging with the global market, by concentrating on the development 
of specialised products and specialising in particular segments of the production chain. 
Furthermore, GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange of investment, 
knowledge, and managerial practices that are in line with global standards, thereby 
significantly bolstering domestic businesses. Gaining access to these globally recognised best 
practices offers emerging economies unparalleled prospects for growth and the augmentation 
of their export capabilities. (Mitra, Gupta, & Sanganeria, 2020)  
However, India remains a fringe player in GVC. 
India’s impact remains modest, representing only 
1.5% of global GVC exports or $241 billion as of 2017, with 
the largest share, about 10%, heading to the United States. Other key destinations 
include Singapore (6.7%) , the People’s Republic of China(4.6%), and several European 
countries. Exports to the US are largely in chemicals and metals, while exports to 
China are predominantly raw materials. In contrast, services such as equipment rental 
and transportation are the main GVC exports to Singapore. Additionally, India’s exports to 
the European Union are diverse, ranging from metals to machinery rental services, as well as 
textiles and electronics being significant GVC exports. (Mitra, Gupta, & Sanganeria, 2020). 
With approximately 63 million Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) operating 
in India, predominantly within sectors at the forefront of Global Value Chain (GVC) exports, 
their integration into these chains is very important. However, they encounter a multitude 
of challenges that hinder their ability to enter or advance within a value chain. MSMEs in 
developing countries frequently find themselves constrained to lower value-added stages of 
production due to the prohibitive investment and expertise required for more sophisticated 
operations, risking functional downgrading or being perpetually confined to less profitable 
niches. Additionally, while ascending a value chain presents more favorable opportunities for 
learning and growth, it simultaneously imposes steeper entry barriers. These include stringent 
quality standards, and the need for speed and adaptability, making it crucial for smaller firms 
in these nations to align swiftly with the escalating demands. 
India’s role in the global 
economy has more than 
doubled, from a
contribution to world 
output in 1990 to
in 2017.
1.4%
3.2%
India remains 
a fringe player 
in GVC. India’s 
impact remains 
modest, 
representing 
only 1.5% of 
global GVC 
exports or $241 
billion as of 2017, 
with the largest 
share, about 10%, 
heading to the 
United States.


--- PAGE 29 ---
29
To successfully address these barriers, it’s essential to focus beyond cost reduction 
techniques. Enhancing efficiency, improving the quality of products and services, and 
speeding up production and delivery are key. This improvement relies on better use of 
resources and labor, fostering a culture of learning and innovation, upgrading processes, 
and broadening sales avenues. Adopting such a comprehensive approach is vital for MSMEs 
aiming to integrate themselves in the global value chain. (Caspari, 2003)
A low FVA-to-DVX ratio, where 
a lower (or higher) ratio implies 
a more active involvement in 
upstream (or downstream) 
tasks within global value chains 
(GVCs). A lower ratio indicates 
a heightened concentration on 
supplying primary products or 
engaging in natural resource-
intensive and low-value-added 
activities. This characteristic 
positions India among 
developing countries, offering 
insights into its distinct role in 
GVCs and its focus on specific 
segments of the production 
chain.
1200000000
1000000000
800000000
600000000
400000000
200000000
0.00
China
China
China
India
India
India
Indonesia
Indonesia
Indonesia
Thailand
Thailand
Thailand
Viet Nam
Viet Nam
Viet Nam
Source: UNCTAD-Eora 
Global Value Chain 
Database
GVC participation 
in selected Asian 
Economies
Fig. 1
DVX
FVA


--- PAGE 30 ---
30
From the above graphs, it is clear that India's performance relative to peer Asian countries 
has remained stagnant in backward global value chain (GVC) participation, while witnessing 
a decline in forward GVC participation reveals important insights into the country's 
positioning within the global economic landscape. This insight suggests both challenges and 
opportunities for India, particularly in the context of its economic development and the role 
of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). India has been successful in integrating 
into upstream stages but is facing challenges in downstream activities as the dynamics shift. 
In that case, the country's strength lies in supplying essential components, raw materials, and 
intermediate goods to global value chains. The declining trend in forward GVC participation 
implies a need to address challenges in distribution, marketing, and sales of finished goods. 
In this context, the emphasis shifts to enhancing India's capabilities in marketing, branding, 
and accessing international markets for the final products. Indian MSMEs, recognising this 
strength in upstream integration, can focus on building stronger connections with global 
manufacturers and optimising their role as suppliers of critical components.
Source: OECD TIVA 
Database
GVC participation 
in selected Asian 
Economies
Fig. 2
Japan
Japan
Indonesia
Indonesia
India
India
South Korea
South Korea
China
China
Viet Nam
Viet Nam
Bangladesh
Bangladesh
0.00
0.00
19981998
Forward GVC ParticipationBackward GVC Participation
20002000
20022002
20042004
20062006
20082008
20102010
20122012
2014
2014
2016
2016
2018
2018
2020
2020
2022
2022
0.02
0.05
0.04
0.10
0.06
0.15
0.08
0.20
0.10
0.25
0.12
0.30
0.14
0.35
0.16
0.40
0.18
0.45
0.20
0.50
0.22
0.24
0.26


--- PAGE 31 ---
31
In India, the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector is of significant importance 
due to its substantial contribution to employment, production, and exports. Based on the latest 
data from the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, in the fiscal year 2021-22, 
the MSME Gross Value Added (GVA) accounted for 29.2% of India’s Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP). Likewise, the share of MSME manufacturing output in India’s total manufacturing output 
for the same period stood at 36.2%, and MSME-specified products represented 45% of India’s 
total exports (PIB, 2023). 
Role of 
MSMEs in 
India’s GVC 
participation 
rate
120 Million Jobs
MSMEs have also created a total of
generated across various industries in India.
They are an important link in the supply chain in various sectors like food processing, agriculture, 
chemicals, electronics, textiles, and so on. The Indian government's strategic efforts in areas like 
competitiveness, quality improvement, finance, and technology have led to a significant shift in 
the sector, moving from basic consumer goods production to the manufacturing of advanced 
products (Ghouse, 2014). Indian MSMEs, despite their impressive 
metrics, remain a step behind global MSMEs. They hold a 
strategic advantage with supportive domestic demand 
and a thriving manufacturing sector. Yet, they are 
predominantly engaged in midstream activities that 
yield low-value addition and a lack of trade efficiency. 
Strategic improvements in these areas could elevate 
Indian MSMEs to meet international benchmarks and 
norms, consequently fortifying their roles in supply 
chains and facilitating their integration into 
global value chains.
According to World Bank data on Micro, 
Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) 
2022, there are significant differences in 
the performance of MSMEs businesses 
((World Bank, 2022), (PIB, 2022)).


--- PAGE 32 ---
32
Performance 
Comparison of 
India’s MSMEs 
with other 
Countries.
Table: 1 MSME obstacles/challenges India South Asia All countries
Biggest Obstacle
Access to 
Financial 
Sources 
(21.5%)
Political 
Instability 
(17.9%)
Access to 
Financial 
Sources 
(15.3%)
Gender Representation (enterprises 
having female ownership participation) 
(%)
3.9% 13.8% 32.9%
Annual Labour Productivity Growth (%) -4.3% -3.1% -2.8%
Real annual sales growth (%) -1.5% 0.8 0.7
Innovation and Technology (firms 
globally introduce new products or 
services) (%)
5.8% 24.9% 36%
Customs (number of days to clear 
direct exports and imports from 
customs)
Exports - 17.3 
days
Imports - 31.5 
days
Exports – 12 
days
Imports – 7.4 
days
Exports – 14.1 
days
Imports – 12.3 
days
Source- (World Bank, 2022)
However, the comparison of MSMEs across the different economies is difficult and can 
be misleading as the criteria for categorizing MSMEs vary globally. They are defined by a 
number of factors and criteria, such as location, size, age, structure, organization, number of 
employees, sales volume, worth of assets, and ownership through innovation and technology 
(OECD, 2018), (Sobir, 2020). In many countries, SMEs are defined primarily by the number of 
employees, while India, under the MSMED Act of 2006, defines MSMEs based on investment in 
plant and machinery (Khatri, 2019).
In response to evolving economic dynamics, India underwent a significant overhaul of its 
MSME definition in 2020. Recognising the limitations of the earlier framework, particularly 
with distinct thresholds for manufacturing and service units featuring relatively low financial 
limits, a reformed definition was introduced. Implemented on July 1, 2020, this new definition 
incorporates a composite set of criteria, considering both investment in plant and machinery/
equipment and annual turnover. The revisions sought to achieve several overarching goals. 
Firstly, they aimed to expand the MSME sector by increasing the investment and turnover 
thresholds, providing a more comprehensive evaluation of business size across sectors. 
By removing limitations on growth for existing MSMEs, the government incentivized their 
expansion without compromising access to crucial support programmes.
Additionally, the adjustments targeted the simplification of classification and the reduction of 
regulatory burdens for MSMEs. A single set of criteria applicable to both the manufacturing 
and service sectors streamlined the classification process, contributing to a more business-
friendly environment. Furthermore, the government's vision extends to promoting a 

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
more competitive MSME sector. The reforms incentivize these enterprises to enhance 
competitiveness and efficiency by allowing MSMEs to grow within the MSME classification. 
This strategic approach positions them to effectively compete with larger companies and 
facilitates better integration into the broader economy. Revisions in the MSME definition 
also influence the extent to which MSMEs are influenced by tariff liberalisation. Higher 
benefits of liberalisation can be accrued by introducing more flexible limits on investment 
for MSMEs (Mukherjee & Chanda, 2021). This adjustment aims to align with contemporary 
economic realities, establish a more objective classification system, and facilitate a conducive 
environment for business operations. (Ministry of MSME, 2023). 
Prioritizing the government's capacity to flexibly adapt and adopt a forward-thinking policy 
approach is crucial for effectively addressing the growing complexities within and around 
the MSME sector. This takes precedence over mere alterations in definitions and is essential 
for ensuring true inclusivity. This adaptability is crucial in creating an enabling ecosystem 
that supports the growth and resilience of businesses in an ever-changing world. The 
first step towards this is understanding the challenges faced by MSMEs and what drives 
the competitiveness of MSMEs across regions and industries is a prerequisite. This paper 
aims to comprehensively analyse India-centric policies affecting MSMEs, evaluate their 
competitiveness, examine their integration into Global Value Chains (GVCs), and offer strategic 
policy recommendations to navigate future challenges.
The first step towards this is understanding the challenges faced 
by MSMEs and what drives the competitiveness of MSMEs across 
regions and industries is a prerequisite.


--- PAGE 34 ---
34
01
Outline
of the Paper
This paper is structured into four key chapters, 
each meticulously designed to contribute to 
the comprehensive understanding of Small and 
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) competitiveness.
Chapter
Understanding MSMEs Challenges 
for Enhancing Competitiveness Competitiveness 
Framework: MSMEs and the 
Path to Prosperity
In this initial chapter, we explore the challenges faced 
by Micro, Small, and Medium 
Enterprises (MSMEs). 
By scrutinizing these 
challenges, we aim to lay the 
groundwork for a profound 
comprehension of the 
intricate dynamics influencing 
their competitiveness.
Building upon the insights garnered from the 
challenges delineated in the first chapter; the 
second chapter explores the competitiveness 
framework and cluster approach’s concept. This 
framework serves as a guiding compass, charting 
the trajectory for MSMEs on the path to prosperity.
Chapter
02

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
04
Chapter
Policies for MSMEs in India
The final chapter of this paper delves into the policy landscape governing MSMEs in 
India. We aim to unravel their efficacy in enhancing competitiveness by scrutinising 
existing policies. This evaluation serves as a crucial step towards proposing 
recommendations for a more robust and adaptive policy framework.
03
Chapter
Understanding MSMEs Competitiveness in 
India Using Clusters Approach
In the third chapter, we adopt a nuanced approach by leveraging the 
Clusters methodology to comprehend the competitiveness of MSMEs in 
5 sectors in the Indian context. By exploring the synergies and dynamics 
within clusters, we seek to uncover unique insights that contribute to a 
more tailored understanding of competitiveness.
Throughout this exploration, our 
overarching objective is to identify 
challenges and provide a forward-
thinking perspective on understanding 
MSME competitiveness. We emphasize 
the importance of adaptability in policy 
formulation and strategic approaches, 
essential for addressing the evolving 
intricacies within and surrounding the 
MSME sector. Through this paper, 
we have strived to contribute 
meaningfully to the ongoing discourse 
on SME competitiveness.
 


--- PAGE 36 ---
36
Understanding 
MSMEs Challenges
Chapter 1 
for Enhancing Competitiveness


--- PAGE 37 ---
37
GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange 
of investment, knowledge, and managerial practices that are 
in line with global standards, thereby significantly bolstering 
domestic businesses
I
ndian MSMEs grapple with a myriad of challenges, ranging from difficulties in timely 
access to information, irregular and inappropriate financial resources, shortage of 
quality human capital, access to credit and low-cost technology, and the prevalence of 
large-scale informality that impedes their growth trajectory (Kapoor, 2023). According to 
an enterprise survey by the World Bank, the following are the biggest obstacles SMEs face 
in India.  
Existing research highlights key obstacles hindering the growth and competitiveness 
of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India. A thorough examination and 
comprehension of these concerns are crucial for developing successful strategies and 
interventions to overcome the challenges MSMEs encounter, thereby enhancing their 
resilience and competitiveness in the Indian economy.
Biggest Obstacles 
faced: By 
manufacturing and 
services SMEs in 
India- 2022
Fig. 3
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
customs 
and trade 
regulations as 
their biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
electricity as 
their biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
inadequately 
educated 
workforce as 
their biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
labor 
regulations 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
political 
instability 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
practices of 
the informal 
sector 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing tax 
administration 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
tax rates as 
their biggest 
obstacle
Source: Enterprise 
Survey, World Bank 
2022
2022 Manufacturing
2022 Services

--- PAGE 38 ---
38
Challenges 
MSMEs face 
are: 
Formalisation1.
Informal firms rarely undergo formalisation. Only 9% of the 
registered firms start out as unregistered. (Porta & Shleifer, 
2014). MSMEs dominate the informal sector, ILO estimates 
about 90% of the informal sector are MSMEs3  (ILO, 
2023). These unregistered, informal firms tend to 
be constrained to an ecosystem associated with 
low income and low entry barriers; disjoint from 
the formal space (Ishengoma & Kappe, 2006) 
(Mehrotra & Giri, 2019)). This informality within firms 
significantly hampers their integration into Global 
Value Chains (GVCs). Enhanced integration into 
GVCs is predominantly influenced by two critical 
factors: competitiveness and connectivity (ADB, 
2015). For firms to bolster their competitiveness and 
connectivity, an enabling environment must allow 
them to effectively leverage policy frameworks and 
market mechanisms.
Existing research highlights key obstacles hindering the growth and competitiveness of Micro, 
Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India. A thorough examination and comprehension 
of these concerns are crucial for developing successful strategies and interventions 
to overcome the challenges MSMEs encounter, thereby enhancing their resilience and 
competitiveness in the Indian economy.
3      https://www.ilo.org/employment/units/emp-invest/informal-
economy/lang--en/index.htm#:~:text=The%20informal%20
economy%20comprises%20more,Small%20Enterprises%20
(MSEs)%20worldwide
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
access to 
finance as 
their biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
access to 
land as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
business 
licensing and 
permits as 
their biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
corruption 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
courts 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent 
of firms 
choosing 
crime, theft 
and disorder 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
Percent of 
firms choosing 
transportation 
as their 
biggest 
obstacle
0
5
10
15
25
20
Biggest Obstacles 
faced: By 
manufacturing and 
services SMEs in 
India- 2022
Source: Enterprise 
Survey, World Bank 
2022
2022 Manufacturing
2022 Services

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
The contribution of MSMEs compared to their proportion in the total firms is abysmal due 
to multiple internal, external, and firm-level factors. Internal factors include the quality of 
human capital, utilization of technology, and working capital; external factors include access 
to financial services, social and business security services, infrastructure, and so on. Other 
firm-level factors, such as linkages with other firms, hinder their growth (Ishengoma & Kappe, 
2006).  
Against this background, formalization can be a solution. The advantage of formalization is 
access to a range of government subsidies and rewards, legally binding business agreements, 
tax advantages, access to established financial channels, and additional motivators. With 
improved access to these resources, enhancing productivity becomes more feasible through 
technological advancements in production and digitalization and is the primary step toward 
establishing MSMEs in the Global Value Chain. (Kapoor & Kowadkar, Gradual shift from 
informal to formal for MSMEs, 2022). However, there are disadvantages to formalization as 
well in the current business and regulatory environment, especially in developing economies. 
Research points out that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with a higher degree of 
formality still face the same obstacles as those with a higher level of informality, along with 
high cost of operation and reduction in government exemptions (Weder, 2003).
Various countries have been addressing the need to formalize small businesses. Kenya 
introduced the Micro and Small Enterprise Act in 2012, creating an authority to support these 
enterprises. China has established Employment Service Organizations, like the SCESO in 
Shanghai, to help informal businesses with various aspects of establishment and operation. 
South Africa’s 1994 national small business strategy aims to assist SMEs in becoming more 
competitive and connected to formal markets, with the National Productivity Institute 
providing training and support. These efforts highlight a global commitment to empowering 
small and informal businesses.
In India, there have been a few initiatives that are changing the formalization landscape of 
MSMEs. The Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM), the previous platform for registering MSMEs in 
India, had 1.02 crore registrations from September 2015 to June 30, 2020. The Udyam portal 
replaced UAM on July 1, 2020, to simplify registration. In just two years, Udyam has garnered 
over 90 lakh registrations, nearing the 1 crore mark  (MSME Desk, 2022). The Udyam database 
is merging with NCS, e-Shram, and ASEEM portals to formalize micro-enterprises. 
Currently, Udyam has around 95 lakh MSMEs registered. The MSME Ministry is addressing 
the delayed payments issue by collaborating with state governments. The Udyam Registration 
Portal (URP) by the Ministry of MSME, Govt. of India, facilitates online MSME registration and 
In India, there have been a few initiatives that are changing the 
formalization landscape of MSMEs. The Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM), 
the previous platform for registering MSMEs in India, had 1.02 crore 
registrations from September 2015 to June 30, 2020.

--- PAGE 40 ---
40
provides Unique Registration Numbers (URN) and Udyam Assist Certificates (UAC). URN is 
crucial for MSMEs to access priority sector lending. However, several of the estimated 6.34 
crore MSMEs, mainly Informal Micro Enterprises (IMEs), remain unregistered due to various 
barriers. To help IMEs formalize, an ‘Assist Methodology’ is proposed. Designated Agencies 
(DAs) like banks, NBFCs, and MFIs will assist IMEs in registration. The central URN will play 
a key role in MSME formalization, making Udyam-registered IMEs eligible for priority sector 
loans and facilitating digitalization  (MSME Formalisation project, 2023). Along with this, GST 
has eased tax compliance and influenced formalization. However, stringent labour laws, tax 
burden, complex regulations and extensive costs as a result of formalization acts as deterrents 
for the formalization of MSMEs
Adoption of an all-of-economy approach that addresses a multitude of challenges faced by 
enterprises at all levels- from reasons to stay unregistered and issues after formalization to 
assessing the degree of formalization necessary in an economy is vital. 


--- PAGE 41 ---
41
Access to Finance2.
Released by RBI, Statements I and II set out data on the sectoral deployment of bank 
credit collected from 41 select scheduled commercial banks, accounting for about 95% of 
the total non-food credit deployed by all scheduled commercial banks.
A compilation of data from these statements for the latest month, which is September, in 
conjunction with older data released by RBI for the same months in the past four years, shows 
that the credit share of 
14%
in September 
2020 to 20%
in September 
2024
Micro and Small enterprises has consistently increased, rising from
to
While the growth is slower compared to micro and small enterprises, the share of medium 
enterprises has gradually increased from 4% in September 2020 to 9% in September 2024. 
This reflects a positive trend for MSMEs in terms of bank credit deployment. Efforts by 
financial institutions and governments to enhance credit flow to these sectors have been 
successful. 
Change in share of 
Sectoral Deployment 
of bank credit in the 
across industries
Fig. 4
Sep,2020
Mar,2021
Sep,2021
Mar,2022
Sep,2022
Mar,2023
Sep,2023
Mar,2024
Sep,2024
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Source: RBI Sectoral 
Deployment of Bank 
Credit – September 
2024, September 2023, 
and September 2022
Micro and Small
Medium
Large
14
82
4 5 6 7 8 8 8 8 9
15
81
16
78
17
76
18
74
19
73
19
73
20
72
20
71
CAGR of the Sectoral 
Deployment of Bank 
Credit
Fig. 5
Industry Micro and Small Medium Large
Source: RBI Sectoral 
Deployment of Bank Credit – 
September 2024, September 
2023, and September 2022
Sep 2020 to Sep 2024
Mar 2021 to Mar 2024
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
7.64%
7.15%
29.08%
4.11%
7.57%
18.80%
29.93%
3.54%

--- PAGE 42 ---
42
Additionally, credit growth in the Micro and Small and Medium Segments from September 
2020 to September 2024, at a CAGR of 17.15% and 29.08%, respectively, was much higher 
than the industrial average of 7.64%.
However, even with these metrics of rising credit availability to MSMEs, there has been high 
incidence of credit gap in the sector. The perception of SMEs as high-risk and commercially 
unviable entities has resulted in limited SMEs receiving formal financial assistance (Ambrose, 
2012). Indian banks, in particular, are hesitant to finance small enterprises due to reasons such 
as the inability to provide collateral, high levels of nonperforming assets, high transaction 
costs, and difficulties in verifying the creditworthiness of applicants (Prasad, 2006). Along with 
this, the financial services that banks offer are often insufficient to meet the needs of early-
stage SMEs in India (Banerjee, 2006).
₹80 Lakh crores
FY21 MSME credit
Total MSME demand of debt ₹69.3 lakh crore as of FY 17
Formal sources of ₹10.9 lakh crore
Increased to
Informal sources/Credit Gap MSME 
demand of ₹58.4lakh crores
The credit gap is met 
through informal sources
Source: IFC Report on Financing India’s MSME Nov 2018; Industry Report on Small Business Loans in India, Five-Star Business Finance and 
CRISIL, November 2021 
In fiscal 2017, only 16% of the Rs 69.3 trillion MSME credit demand was met through formal 
financing, leaving a credit gap of Rs 58.4 trillion, primarily filled by informal sources with 
interest rates of 30% to 60%. The gap widened further due to the 2020 economic slowdown 
and the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite relief from schemes like ECLGS, by fiscal 2021, only 19% 
of the Rs99 lakh crore credit demand was formally met, with CRISIL estimating the credit gap 
to have grown to Rs80 lakh crore.
Accessing external finance from sources other than banks is costly, limited, and poses a 
challenge to SMEs despite being essential for long-term growth and goals (Biswas, 2014). 
Due to constraints in accessing bank credit, MSMEs are forced to employ alternative sources 
of finance. While accessing finance from formal institutions, MSMEs face several barriers, 
including the need for collateral or guarantees, inflexible policies, high lending rates, lengthy 
procedures, entrepreneurs' limited financial knowledge of available schemes, high service fees 
and complex regulatory frameworks (Singh & Wasdani, 2016) , (Ambrose, 2012)). This restricted 
access to financial resources hampers the growth and survival prospects of Indian MSMEs. 
Barriers have also been examined in the context of gender (Irwin & Scott, 2010), firm size, the 

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
length of lending relationships, and the use of overdraft credit (Bebczuk, 2004). The Reserve 
Bank of India (2005) has identified several issues in financing SMEs, including inadequate 
access to finance for small firms due to a lack of financial information and non-formal business 
practices, limited access to private equity, venture capital, and secondary market instruments, 
fragmented markets for inputs and vulnerability of products to market fluctuations, limited 
access to technology and product innovations, lack of awareness of global best practices, and 
significant delays in settlement of dues and payment of bills by large-scale buyers. A reduction 
in the cost of credit, time barriers and documentation is necessary to ease the procurement of 
finance (Grant Thornton, FICCI, 2011)
Some of the reasons for the low financial inclusion of SMEs are no effective management tool 
in place, lack of knowledge of banking guidelines, and ineffective mechanisms to weigh the 
creditworthiness of the company (Subramanian & Nehru, 2012). To increase access to finance, 
confidence in the abilities of MSMEs and remedial measures for investors is necessary.
To increase access to finance, confidence in the abilities of MSMEs and 
remedial measures for investors is necessary.
Skill Gap3.
Between 2014 and 2022, the number of skilled employees in medium, small, and large 
enterprises witnessed significant growth, with increases of 19.94%, 20%, and 12.72%, 
respectively, as reported in the World Bank Enterprise Survey data. 
Large enterprises Medium enterprises Small enterprises 
19.94%12.72% 20%
Nonetheless, the increase in skilled labour is relatively modest compared to the development 
pace seen in the past decade. A significant mismatch exists between the quantity and 
calibre of available skills and the skills needed. This discrepancy is highlighted by the Global 
Innovation Index ranking (WIPO, 2023), revealing a 3.9 percentage point decline in knowledge-
intensive hiring from the already modest 12.96% recorded in 2022. This continues to hinder 
the development of MSMEs.

--- PAGE 44 ---
44
A 2009 study by NCAER on India’s Textile and Clothing sector found that there is a massive 
gap between the availability of skilled labour and the needs of the industry. It recommends 
industry-specific skill development and revisions in labour law to overcome these barriers. 
They point out that a highly skilled labour pool is required to move towards value products, 
which is required for the development of the industry through innovation and R&D. MSMEs 
are also unable to hire skilled labourers on the managerial level due to the informal nature of 
the industry and better employment opportunities available for such skilled workers due to 
the informal nature of the industry and better employment opportunities available for such 
skilled workers (Khatri, 2019). The scarcity of skilled labour is a significant obstacle for MSMEs, 
hindering their capacity to innovate, enhance production standards, and scale their operations. 
These are essential steps for establishing a strong foothold in Global Value Chains.
The diversity and scattered structure of MSMEs call for focused skill development 
programs. Cluster-based targeting of skills training, developing sector-specific occupational 
standards, exploring cost-sharing models for skills training of existing employees, and clearly 
understanding the needs of unregistered MSMEs will help bridge the skill gap and enhance 
SMEs’ competitiveness (Sinha & Pental, 2017).
Technology and Innovation4.
Given the significance of the MSME sector, it is crucial to ensure the competitive position of 
Indian SMEs, both on the national and international stages, with technology and innovation 
serving as pivotal factors. Research has highlighted the importance of investing in Research 
and Development (R&D) activities, improving quality control processes, and fostering 
innovation ecosystems to enhance MSME competitiveness (C, 2013); (Kanerva, Arundel, 
& Rene). Moreover, the ability to adapt and incorporate emerging technologies, such as 
digitalization and automation, is increasingly vital for competitiveness (OECD, 2019). On the 
Innovation front, India holds the 40th position among 132 economies in the 2023 Global 
Innovation Index by WIPO (PIB Delhi, 2023), assessing innovation through 80 indicators. Indian 
manufacturing relies heavily on labour-intensive activities, hindering their potential in GVCs. 
Despite improvements since 2015, India’s innovation performance needs enhancement, 
especially within MSMEs, to boost competitiveness. 
Research highlights the challenges faced by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in 
India regarding technology and innovation. Patchouri & Sharma (2016) found that smaller 
firms often rely on domestic sources for technology, with only a small fraction sourcing 
from abroad or collaborators. Singh (2019) identified several issues impeding technology 
innovation implementation in Northern India’s small firms, such as inadequate human 
resource management, difficulty in acquiring affordable raw materials, and unreliable power 
supply. Unlike their counterparts in developed economies, these factors limit SMEs’ access 
to international technology and innovation. In the Philippines, Ceuto et al. (2022) explored 
the drivers and barriers to digital innovation among MSMEs, citing a lack of digital skills, 
digital market challenges, and insufficient internet infrastructure as significant hurdles. 
The diversity 
and scattered 
structure of 
MSMEs call for 
focused skill 
development 
programs. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
Product Diversification5.
Lack of diversification and innovation in product design is a key deterrent to MSME growth in 
India.  Indian MSMEs with diversified products and services witnessed a growth in customer 
base by 18%, as compared to players with limited diversification. Despite this, a lack of 
awareness of market trends, lack of technical knowledge for product diversification, and the 
high investment cost required in machinery, skilling, and marketing discourage MSMEs from 
diversifying (Mitra, Nikore, & Gupta, 2021)
India’s SMEs have been unable to establish a distinct brand value, internationalise their 
products and establish themselves as important players in the value chain. Excessive costs of 
product development, lack of effective selling techniques, unsophisticated marketing, lack of 
market research, and lack of funds for implementing expensive software, projects themselves 
as major barriers to SME competitiveness. (March-Chorda, 2002), (Xiong, 20016)). These 
barriers lead SMEs to remain local and distanced from GVCs, as they produce low-technology 
products (Pradhan & Das, 2013) that have low profitability and are misaligned with market 
needs.
Strategies that address the issues relating to complex regulations, accessibility to finance, 
infrastructure, and export promotion which can be employed at both individual and national 
levels are necessary. A simplified regulatory framework, good governance, accessible finance, 
proper infrastructure, and availability of foreign market information will help SMEs in the 
promotion of their products (Bonga, 2017) . It is imperative to gain a thorough understanding 
of the competitive landscape, market analysis, and regulatory aspects in both domestic and 
global markets. This knowledge will enable MSMEs to diversify their products and establish a 
presence in both national and international markets.
Despite government efforts to boost small-scale industries, technological stagnation persists, 
hindering the sector’s progress (Bhavani, 2002).
In many developing nations, a substantial proportion of small and micro businesses are 
established out of necessity for mere survival. In such cases, entrepreneurial spirit is one of 
the key factors in the survival of enterprises, as it enables businesses to adapt to evolving 
economic circumstances (Ligthelm, 2010) . In order to adapt to market dynamics, maintain 
competitiveness, and enable the enterprise to navigate market complexities, entrepreneurial 
behaviour and organizational innovation have a significant impact on overall performance 
and enable enterprises to adapt to market dynamics, maintain competitiveness, and navigate 
market complexities (Oyong, 2019).  
Understanding the associations between technology and innovation and engaging in 
coordinated actions between technology and innovation will fortify the competitiveness of 
SMEs.

--- PAGE 46 ---
46
Tax compliance6.
Taxes and the economy are closely interconnected, and whenever there is a significant change 
in the tax system, it becomes crucial to assess its impact on the relevant industry and the 
associated businesses (Bhalla, Sharma, & Kaur, 2023).
A recent Enterprise Survey Study (World Bank, 2022) revealed that tax rates and compliance 
was one of the top three business environment constraints for small, medium and large 
enterprises, with its prominence as a constraint having risen from 2014 to 2022. This barrier 
is clearly reflected in the imbalance in GST tax revenue. As of June 2023, Proprietorships that 
form a maximum of 80.41% taxpayer base contribute only roughly 13.32% of the total revenue 
from GST (GSTN, 2023).
It is evident that tax systems for MSMEs should be designed to align tax compliance 
requirements with the capacity of SMEs. The tax system for SMEs should minimise compliance 
costs and enhance accessibility on the MSME end and should be easy to administer and 
implement on the authorities’ side ((Ponorica & Al- Saedi), (Awasthi, 2011)). Tax compliance 
brings more enterprises into the formal sectors, providing better access to finance, and 
opportunities for collaboration. (World Bank, 2011). 
This restructuring is especially important in India as most SMEs perceive the tax system to 
be unfair and inequitable, and tend to stay out of the formal economy. The simplification of 
income tax procedures for SMEs, informed by past experiences, perceived fairness, taxpayers’ 
ability, taxpayer feedback, and lessons from other tax systems, is recommended to form a solid 
foundation for sound tax policy decisions ((Gabriela and Juhi (2015), (Awasthi, 2011), (Ponorica 
& Al- Saedi), (Musimenta , Muhwezi, & Akankunda, 2017)). 
It is evident 
that tax 
systems for 
MSMEs should 
be designed 
to align tax 
compliance 
requirements 
with the 
capacity of 
SMEs.
Contribution to 
GST Revenue 
from Different 
Constitutions of 
Business
Fig. 6
Public Sector 
Undertaking
Public Limited 
Company
Limited Liability 
Partnership
Society/Club/
Trust/AOP
Private Limited 
Company
Partnership
Proprietorship
Others
Source- GSTN, 2024
Percentage of 
Taxpayers
Percentage 
of Collection
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 90%80%
0.02%
9.94%
0.52%
34.40%
0.80%
1.20%
0.88%
1.40%
0.93%
4.14%
6.11%
28.32%
10.34% 7.27%
13.32%
80.41%

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Infrastructure7.
A deficiency in infrastructure support in developing nations challenges SMEs’ growth 
prospects (Olawale & Garwe, 2010). In India, inadequate infrastructure support is one of the 
major non-financial barriers faced by MSMEs (Singh & Paliwal, 2017). A major concern for the 
growth and development of MSMEs, as reported by the Small Industries Development Bank of 
India (SIDBI) in 2010, is the lack of infrastructure support. According to a survey by PHDCCI, 
the Indian MSME sector has identified several obstacles to business growth, including 
inadequate infrastructure, outdated labour laws, multiple taxes, and the uncooperative attitude 
of government officials (PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry , 2022). Furthermore, many 
MSMEs in rural and semi-urban areas still face a lack of essential infrastructure such as power, 
roads, and communication services, which hinders their efficiency and overall development.
Good and Service Tax (GST) has been one of the most impactful tax reforms in India. In the 
context of GST’s impact on MSME (Bhalla, Sharma, & Kaur, 2023) highlight the positive impact 
of the GST system on business performance, citing enhanced operational efficiency and 
transparency in the indirect tax structure. It also highlights the benefits of input tax credits and 
the prevention of stock leakages, which have contributed to improved MSME performance by 
reducing working capital blockages. While GST has these advantages and has increased tax 
neutrality, it also introduces challenges such as the need to reduce the basic exemption limit, 
differentiate tax rates for luxury goods and services, manage business costs, and decrease GST 
compliance expenses 
A brief overview of the research on other developing economies and tax compliance reveals a 
similar picture. Tax compliance of Indonesian SMEs is influenced by the probability of audit, tax 
knowledge, and the perception of equity and fairness (Inasius, 2018) . Turnover growth of SMEs 
in Cameroon is affected by tax regulations and the time required to comply with tax (Akinboade, 
2015) . In China, a positive relationship between tax compliance and digital finance was observed 
(Ouyang, Liu, & Li, 2023) . In Vietnam, corruption has a significant and negative effect on Tax 
compliance, as is the case in many developing nations (le et al, 2020, (Awasthi, 2011)
Tax compliance proves to be a vital determinant in the growth of SMEs and has a major multiplier 
effect. Not only from the point of view of competitiveness of MSMEs but tax compliance is an 
important factor contributing to the country's tax revenue (Sihombing, 2021) .Hence, as stated, 
revamping tax systems to account for the tax-to-turnover ratio of small enterprises, tax-paying 
abilities, industry structure, and administrative inefficiencies is necessary. 
Tax compliance proves to be a vital determinant in the growth of SMEs 
and has a major multiplier effect. Not only from the point of view of 
competitiveness of MSMEs but tax compliance is an important factor 
contributing to the country’s tax revenue

--- PAGE 48 ---
48
Inadequate infrastructure is one of the key reasons why MSMEs in India, despite being 
competitive have failed to establish themselves in the global market. They continue to face 
bottlenecks due to a lack of adequate transportation facilities like railways, waterways, 
roadways and airways, high cost of transportation, poor public transport, low/no access to a 
reliable power supply, poor drainage systems, lack of proper communication channels, lack 
of appropriate storage facilities, inadequate marketing facilities, lack of funds, and so on. 
(Prakash, Kumar, & Verma, 2021) (Singh & Paliwal, 2017)
The Ministry of Micro and Small Enterprises has actively participated in this regard, and there 
have been various attempts by the government to create infrastructure-focused schemes 
(such as the Infrastructure Development Programme, Scheme of Fund for Regeneration 
of Traditional Industries, and so on). In 1998 it established ‘The Integrated Technology 
Upgradation and Management Programme’ (UPTECH). This policy was revised twice and later 
renamed “Micro and Small Enterprises – Cluster Development Programme (MSE – CDP)” in 
2010. The scheme has a cluster-based approach to highlight the needs and requirements 
of a sector. This scheme aimed to develop market-linked infrastructure development where 
development facilities and centralised distribution are in collaboration with state governments, 
setting up exhibition centres and establishing testing centres to tap the international markets. 
This initiative, which spans across various clusters throughout India, ensures the maintenance 
of product quality for both domestic production and international export.
Even though such forward-looking initiatives have been undertaken, the implementation of 
these policies has been inefficient.  A need for revising policy objectives according to the 
changing dynamics, accountability and convergence in all tiers of government with respect 
to the administration and implementation of these policies is crucial. A collaboration between 
private and public stakeholders for expansion and diversification of resources will make 
policies holistic in their approach as well as increase their impact on the economy.


--- PAGE 49 ---
49
Policy Environment 
The “Missing Middle” Problem
8.
9.
Government policies have a significant impact on entrepreneurship, and the right approach 
depends on factors like attitudes of the population on starting businesses, the workforce, 
government size and role, the current state of entrepreneurship, and the situation of small and 
medium-sized businesses (SMEs) (Asghar, Paghaleh, & Khaksar, 2011).
Over the years various policies, schemes and initiatives such as ECLGS, Startup India, 
SAMRIDH, Startup India Seed Fund scheme (to SMEs, MSMEs), and Atmanirbhar Bharat along 
with tax reforms have created a favourable environment and given room for SMEs to scale 
(Kadaba, Aithal, & Sharma, 2023). While these efforts are contributing to the development of 
MSMEs, there is limited awareness about the support systems and resources created to assist 
this sector. Furthermore, enterprises face challenges comprehending and accessing these 
initiatives. A need for thorough surveys to identify the technical and financial requirements of 
MSMEs for a better understanding of the ground reality and engagement of larger enterprises 
with advanced expertise will bolster the growth of MSMEs (Khatri, A Study of the Challenges of 
the Indian MSME Sector, 2019) . 
Despite the implementation of several government initiatives, there exist visible deficiencies 
within this sector that require attention. A crucial measure in bridging these gaps involves 
conducting impact evaluations of pivotal government programs and formulating policies 
that target the key variables impacting the growth of MSMEs (Gautam, 2022) . However, a 
thorough examination reveals a notable deficiency in current research. There is a need for an 
investigation into the alignment between government policies and the needs and challenges 
encountered by the MSME sector, along with an evaluation of the effectiveness of these 
initiatives. his will aid in addressing the intricacies and implementing tailored strategies 
necessary for resolving the complexities in this sector.
The “Missing Middle” phenomenon, a term denoting the underrepresentation of medium-sized 
enterprises in the manufacturing sector, particularly within developing nations, has prompted 
significant research. Initially highlighted by Dhar and Lydall (1961), this phenomenon was 
identified through the conspicuous absence of firms employing between 50 to 499 workers 
within Indian manufacturing employment data. Building upon this foundation, Tybout (2000) 
observed that not only are small and mid-sized enterprises absent in impoverished nations, 
but that this absence might be attributed to stringent business regulations. These regulations 
seemingly favor larger entities, leaving smaller firms to grapple with compliance challenges 
disproportionate to their limited resources.
Through an empirical analysis, Krueger (2009) reveals a U-shaped curve characterising 
the size distribution of manufacturing employment in India, where the smallest firms (6-9 

--- PAGE 50 ---
50
workers) were most prevalent, and those employing 50-99 workers were least represented. 
She argued that excessive regulations intended to protect workers within the organized sector 
inadvertently stifled small firm growth, as expansion led to prohibitive cost increments. 
Nagaraj (2018) posits that the industrial labour market in India is characterised by a stark 
dualism, highlighted by highly efficient, urban-based manufacturing, as opposed to traditional, 
subsistence-oriented informal employment. Abreha, Cirera, Davies, and Fattal–Jaef (2022) 
empirically demonstrate in sub-Saharan Africa that medium-sized firms contribute modestly to 
employment, a situation exacerbated by informal firms and regulatory distortions rather than 
the size of new entrants. Echoing this, Little (1987) identified a historical bimodal employment 
distribution resulting from state-led heavy industrialisation favouring large factories and small 
cottage industries, creating a gap in the middle. This missing middle is more pronounced 
in India than in other Asian economies, suggesting a unique set of organisational and 
technological challenges within its manufacturing sector (Hasan & Jandoc, 2010).
According to the Udyam Registration portal, as of November 2023, out of 3,06,24,320 MSMEs 
registered, 3,05,60,814 are classified, among which, there are about 97.92% micro, 1.89% small 
and 0.01 % medium enterprises. 
Percentage of 
Micro, Small 
and Medium 
of Registered 
MSMEs
Fig. 7
Source: UDYAM 
Registration 
Portal (https://
udyamregistration.
gov.in/Government-
India/Ministry-MSME-
registration.htm)
Micro Medium
Small
97.92%
1.89% 0.01%

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
Mehrotra and Giri (2019) use integrated data from formal and informal firms in India to 
analyse enterprise size distribution, particularly in the manufacturing sector, and to identify 
factors contributing to micro and small firm concentrations. Their findings reveal that over 
90% of Indian MSMEs are micro-enterprises, employing 40% of the workforce, with a missing 
presence of small enterprises. The concentration of micro-firms is attributed to factors like 
low productivity, limited access to finance, and regulatory barriers. Notably, there is a dearth 
of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a significant proportion falling into the Own 
Account Enterprises (OAEs) category. Policymakers have largely overlooked these small units, 
as have the enterprises in the unorganised sector. Their research implies that there is not 
only a missing middle but a missing small as well. They argue for a new policy framework that 
addresses specific constraints, advocating for policies that foster growth while creating an 
enabling environment for MSME development. (Mehrotra & Giri, 2019)
Globally, the extent of labour regulations tends to rise in correlation with the size of factories 
and businesses. Due to the substantial costs associated with compliance, these regulations 
pose a compliance burden and prevent enterprises from organically expanding in size and 
harnessing economies of scale in production. This gives rise to the “missing middle”.
The missing middle phenomenon in India is a complex challenge, but it is one that must be 
addressed through a comprehensive policy framework that takes into account the unique 
needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. This framework should foster growth, take into 
account labour and industrial structure, and prioritise bringing these enterprises into the 
policymaker's frame of reference.
Policymakers have largely overlooked these small units, as have the 
enterprises in the unorganised sector. Their research implies that there is 
not only a missing middle but a missing small as well.

--- PAGE 52 ---
52
Competitiveness 
Framework: 
Chapter 2 
MSMEs and the Path to Prosperity


--- PAGE 53 ---
53
While the crucial role played by MSMEs in fostering shared prosperity is widely 
recognised, both government and business leaders continue to grapple with the 
question of how to effectively address the challenges hampering SME development 
and competitiveness. This acknowledgement is coupled with the acceptance of 
various challenges MSMEs face that impede their growth and competitiveness.  The 
urgency of addressing longstanding challenges such as limited access to credit 
markets, inadequate market linkages, and outdated technology has become even more 
pronounced (Daño-Luna, Maribel, & Francisco, 2018). This heightened urgency is driven 
by the evolving structure of the marketplace, the constraints posed by limited resources, 
the management capabilities (Deniz, 2013), (Hautz, 2014), and the ongoing need for 
continuous capacity building. In this context, improving competitiveness emerges as the 
sole pathway to survival (Chobanyan & Laurence, 2006).
Emerging in the 1980s, the concept of competitiveness was studied by Buckley, 
Pass, and Prescott (1988) by examining extant literature which reveals the difficulty 
in measuring competitiveness at the levels of country, industry, firm, and product 
(Buckley, 1988). Michael Porter (1990), in his book ‘The Competitive Advantage of 
Nations’, outlined a new approach to competitiveness. A concept that was approached 
mainly through a macroeconomic lens or a focus on resources inherent to a location, 
took on a productivity-based framework in this seminal work.  This break-away from 
other conceptions of competitiveness emphasized that it is not about what a location 
possesses, but how productively the firm or the nation uses available resources. 
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic capabilities in the national 
business environment where firms compete, without which the broader macro-framework 
would not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in the Indian business 
scenario which harbours a majority of small enterprises. The expectations and actions of 
firms, customers, suppliers, and associated institutions must be taken into consideration. 
The competitiveness framework thrust on assessing microeconomic foundations of 
economic activity will help in capturing this aspect. 
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic 
capabilities in the national business environment where firms 
compete, without which the broader macro-framework would 
not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in 
the Indian business scenario which harbours a majority of small 
enterprises. 


--- PAGE 54 ---
54
This approach transcends the mere geographic proximity of producers or industries. It 
considers the interconnections between diverse firms and institutions within a given location. 
Porter’s 
Diamond 
Model
&
The Microeconomic pillar is composed of two essential components 
The presence of related and 
supporting industries. 
The quality of the business 
environment in the nation
Using the diamond model as a tool to measure national competitiveness, Porter has proposed 
a competitiveness gauge to assess the business environment of a nation or a firm. The 
diamond model is, thus, an integral aspect of the microeconomic pillar of the competitiveness 
framework (Ketels, 2017). This model comprehensively considers factor conditions, demand 
conditions, related and supporting industries, the structure of strategy, and rivalry. These 
factors make up the national environment where companies are born and learn how to 
compete.
Firm strategy, Structure 
and Rivalry
Related and supporting 
industries
Factor Conditions Demand Conditions
Source: Michael Porter, On Competition, 1990
Factor Conditions encompass a nation's intrinsic resources and capabilities, spanning 
skilled labor, infrastructure, and natural resources. The quality and quantity of these 
factors intricately shape the overall competitiveness of a country. Demand Conditions, 
another facet of the model, pivot on the nature and extent of demand within the domestic 
market, acting as catalysts for innovation and product development. A sophisticated and 
demanding local market serves as a driving force, compelling firms to enhance their offerings 
through continuous improvement and innovation. The aspect of Related and Supporting 
Industries underscores the significance of robust, interconnected industries and supportive 
infrastructure, collectively contributing to the competitiveness of a particular industry. The 

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
Macroeconomic Policy
Microeconomic Policy DIAMOND 
CLUSTER
Firm Level (Large Enterprises 
MSMEs etc)
synergy among these industries within clusters creates a mutually reinforcing environment, 
fostering overall competitiveness. Lastly, Firm Strategy, Structure, and Rivalry delineate the 
conditions governing the creation, organization, and management of companies, coupled 
with the intensity of domestic competition. The presence of vigorous domestic competition is 
highlighted for its potential to spur innovation and operational efficiency among firms. Each 
factor in this model and the interplay of the four together affect essential ingredients for 
achieving international competitive success. Some economies have an interplay of these four 
factors that harbours an environment conducive to growth for certain companies. 
The diamond model provides nuanced insights into the dynamics of competitiveness. 
Transitioning from this microeconomic perspective, the overarching business environment 
illustrated in the figure below, exerts deterministic forces originating from historical, 
geographical, and culturally-bound institutions (1). In contrast, policy choices provide 
opportunities for citizens to actively sculpt the future of their society. On the economic front, 
macroeconomic policies (2) wield influence over the general business environment, while 
microeconomic policies (3), inclusive of cluster initiatives designed to optimize the functioning 
of the microeconomic "engine," directly impact the diamond and clusters. Furthermore, 
strategies formulated within firms and entrepreneurial activities (4) serve as proactive forces 
that significantly contribute to shaping both clusters and society at large (Sölvell, Lindqvist, & 
Ketels, 2003). This interconnected framework underscores the symbiotic relationship between 
macroeconomic forces, microeconomic dynamics, and entrepreneurial endeavors in driving 
national competitiveness.
Source: The Cluster Initiative Greenbook (modified version)
We move forth to understand the other essential component of the microeconomic aspect of 
competitiveness – i.e., Related and Supporting Industries or the presence of clusters in the 
next section.  
General Business Environment
3
2
1
4

--- PAGE 56 ---
56
Clusters 
Concept 
Evolution 
Cluster 
Approach: 
Unravelling 
Divergences 
in Adoption in 
India 
The role of clusters in enhancing the competitiveness at firm level (including MSMEs is 
exceedingly important particularly in the current era of globalization. It was first mentioned 
by Alfred Marshall, who laid the foundation for understanding the externalities within clusters 
(Marshall, 1920). Post this various models, such as the Collective Efficiency Model (Schmitz, 
1995), Flexible Specialization Model ,and Diamond Model (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New 
Economies of Competition, 1998) were employed for the analysis of clusters (Neven & Dröge, 
2001). 
There are differences in each model: Piore and Sabel’s Flexible Specialization Model views 
a cluster as an industrial district comprised of small enterprises engaged in a complex 
network of competition and cooperation, emphasizing value creation, holistic approaches, 
and the dynamic aspects of the cluster. Each model contributes unique insights, collectively 
enriching the understanding of clusters in diverse contexts. In contrast, Schmitz’s Collective 
Efficiency Model conceptualizes a cluster as a group of producers engaged in similar activities 
in close proximity, focusing on factor conditions, demand conditions, externalities, joint action, 
flexibility, economies of scope, innovation, and product differentiation.  Whereas Porter’s 
Diamond Model defines a cluster as a network of interconnected firms and institutions in 
a specific field located within a particular geographical area, emphasizing firm strategy, 
structure, rivalry, factor conditions, demand conditions, and related and supporting industries. 
Out of all models, Porter’s definition of cluster has found extensive application in advanced 
economies but has been notably overlooked in research on developing nations7.  
While acknowledging the advantages, the Government of India 
has initiated cluster-forming endeavours and devised strategies 
to amplify this ecosystem’s scale for MSMEs. The Ministry of 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Government of 
India (GoI) has adopted the Cluster Development approach 
as a key strategy for enhancing the productivity and 
competitiveness as well as capacity building of Micro 
and Small Enterprises (MSEs) and their collectives in 
the country. 

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
A cluster is a group of enterprises located 
within an identifiable and as far as practicable, 
contiguous area or a value chain that goes 
beyond a geographical area and producing 
same/similar products/complementary 
products/services, which can be linked together 
by common physical infrastructure facilities 
that help address their common challenges. 
The essential characteristics of enterprises in a 
cluster are 
The Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
(MSME) defines clusters as following
(a) Similarity or complementarity in the methods of production, quality 
control & testing, energy consumption, pollution control, etc., 
(b) Similar level of technology & marketing strategies/practices, 
(c) Similar channels for communication among the members of the cluster, 
(d) Common market & skill needs and/or 
(e) Common challenges & opportunities that the cluster faces.
The Indian definition outlined above, emphasises clusters as groups of enterprises facing similar 
challenges, which could include common issues in production methods, quality control, marketing, 
and infrastructure. It involves significant government intervention through the establishment of 
SPVs and the allocation of grants to support the development of Common Facility Centers (CFCs). 
The government is actively involved in planning and funding. The Indian definition of clusters 
exhibits a closer alignment with the concepts of Collective Efficiency as proposed by Schmitz and 
certain elements of Flexible Specialization articulated by Piore and Sabel, rather than adhering to 
Porter's Diamond Model. The emphasis on enterprises situated within a discernible geographic 
area engaged in the production of similar or complementary products/services, coupled with 
the establishment of common physical infrastructure to address shared challenges, closely 
corresponds to the principles of Collective Efficiency. This model underscores the importance 
of collaboration and collective actions among firms within a cluster to enhance their overall 
competitiveness.
Furthermore, the reference to Common Facility Centers (CFC) offering diverse facilities such 
as processing, training, marketing, and raw material depots suggests a level of flexibility and 
specialisation within the cluster. The concept of shared infrastructure capable of addressing various 
needs of enterprises aligns with the fundamental tenets of Flexible Specialisation.

--- PAGE 58 ---
58
Porter’s 
approach on 
Clusters 
Clusters are geographic concentrations of interconnected companies and institutions in a 
particular field. Clusters encompass an array of linked industries and other entities important 
to competition. Clusters also often extend downstream to channels and customers and 
laterally to manufacturers of complementary products and companies in industries related 
by skills, technologies, or common inputs (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New Economies of 
Competition, 1998).
A cluster is the manifestation 
of the diamond at work
Porter asserts that 
- (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New 
Economies of Competition, 1998)
Clusters exert a positive influence on competition in three 
primary ways. Firstly, they enhance the productivity of firms 
situated within the geographic confines of the cluster. Secondly, 
they serve as catalysts for innovation, driving its direction and 
pace, which underpins future growth in productivity. Lastly, 
they stimulate the formation of new enterprises, contributing 
to the cluster's expansion and reinforcement. Clusters make 
opportunities for innovation more visible and make innovations 
possible by aiding connections between stakeholders. (Porter 
M. E., Clusters and the New Economies of Competition, 1998).
Reasserting Porter’s definition of clusters: 
Clusters are not merely an agglomeration of firms 
but rather a proximate group of interconnected 
firms by commodities and complementarities. 
- (Porter M. E., Clusters and the New Economies of Competition, 1998).
It is a dynamic framework that places a strong emphasis on value creation and the 
enhancement of competitiveness (Neven & Dröge, 2001) . Moreover, a significant advantage 
of the Porter model is that it does not assume an initial starting point nor an ideal to be strived 
for (Neven & Dröge, 2001) ; instead, it proposes processes that make a cluster move from 
one stage to another. These attributes of the diamond model have made it an effective and 
widely adopted tool for the study of clusters nationally and internationally, especially SME 
competitiveness. 
The current interpretation of the Indian definition diverges from Porter's framework and the 
globally accepted definition of clusters by developed economies like the U.S. and European Union.

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
Clusters are not just sectors – they capture the geographic footprint of economic activities, 
not because they belong to the same statistical classification but because industries are 
systematically related through local spillovers and linkages. Clusters that emerge around specific 
factors and compete primarily on factor endowments tend to be shallow (Ketels, 2017). Porter 
also highlights the role of natural clusters that arise without significant government intervention. 
While government policies can influence clusters, the emphasis is on the organic development of 
clusters driven by market forces. While the Indian definition does touch upon factors like common 
challenges, it doesn't explicitly emphasize the determinants outlined in Porter's Diamond Model. 
The Indian definition of clusters aligns more closely with the concepts of Collective Efficiency 
(as proposed by Schmitz) and certain elements of Flexible Specialization (according to Piore 
and Sabel), rather than adhering strictly to Porter's Diamond Model. However, users of these 
models, whether directly or indirectly, often appear disjointed in their application, seeking 
answers beyond the confines of the chosen framework and underscoring the need for a more 
comprehensive approach. In this context, Porter's Diamond Model emerges as inherently superior, 
with its foundational principles grounded in extensive research that spans various countries and 
industries, providing a more robust and versatile framework for analysis. The consequence of a 
narrow definition of clusters results in a myopic outlook, which undermines the growth potential 
of these clusters and directly impacts their scalability and competitiveness.
In India, the Porter framework has not been tested to a great extent, but there are case studies 
that have used it have affirmed its validity and called for more extensive applications of the model 
in this setting. An examination of the Textile Cluster in Tirupur, also known as Textile hub of India 
(Trivikram, Bhalla, Fraser, & Nicholson, 2011) indicates a prevalence of small enterprises and a 
deficiency in brand equity. However, there has been an improvement in competitiveness observed 
in Tirupur, as well as in other international knitwear clusters, after the termination of the Multi-
Fiber Agreement. Constraint-free access to primary materials (cotton) and robust Institutions for 
Collaboration (IFCs) bolster the Tirupur cluster. The cluster is renowned for its capacity to fulfil 
orders with short lead periods of two to four weeks and for the entrepreneurial spirit of its SME 
members. Poor infrastructure support (in terms of electricity, ports, and roads), inadequate R&D, 
pollution, and relatively high logistics costs plague the cluster. A Study of Andhra Pradesh Clusters 
(Joshi, 2020) shows that the labour-intensive manufacturing sectors, like Food Processing and 
textile and apparel, that currently build their competitiveness based on Government facilitation 
need labour management and a change of orientation to cater towards global markets. Capital 
as well as labour-intensive manufacturing sectors such as Minerals and Metals and Heavy 
Engineering, which are already embedded into the national value chain, should undertake a 
series of steps to elevate their competitiveness and integrate themselves into the global value 
chain. A study (Jhamb, 2016) which utilised Porter's model to analyse the different determinants 
of competitive advantage of the Sports Goods Cluster at Jalandhar concludes that the cluster 
mainly depends on factor conditions, i.e., raw material availability and skilled labour. Along with 
this, sophisticated customers, machinery suppliers and competitors enhance the cluster's growth. 
The study suggests that the cluster should focus on developing specialised and advanced factors 
and timely implementation of government policies to upgrade competitive advantage from 
fundamental factors of production. These national and international studies reveal that specific 
issues hindering growth within various industries can be discerned and effectively addressed 
through cluster analysis using the diamond model.
 
Porter also 
highlights the 
role of natural 
clusters that 
arise without 
significant 
government 
intervention. 

--- PAGE 60 ---
60
Understanding 
MSMEs
Chapter 3 
competitiveness in 
India using Clusters


--- PAGE 61 ---
61
GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange 
of investment, knowledge, and managerial practices that are 
in line with global standards, thereby significantly bolstering 
domestic businesses
C
lusters play a vital role in enhancing the competitiveness of MSMEs, particularly 
in the current era of globalisation. Various theoretical frameworks, such as flexible 
specialization and collective efficiency, have been crafted to examine the dynamics 
of clusters. Notably, one widely recognized paradigm, Porter’s diamond model, has 
found extensive application in advanced economies but has been notably overlooked 
in research on developing nations, especially in the context of India. This section of the 
paper would critically evaluate the relevance and applicability of Porter’s cluster approach 
for 5 sectors in India: 
This is based on data sourced from the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the 
panorama benefits from extensive coverage of the Indian labour force, offering detailed 
information on wages and employment within 5-digit National Industrial Classification 
(NIC) industries at the district level. The data is aggregated into cluster categories, 
formulated by aligning the 5-digit NIC codes with Benchmark Cluster Definitions initially 
developed in the U.S. and subsequently applied in various other economies. This Indian 
cluster database affords a comprehensive view of the overall configuration of the Indian 
economy, the spatial distribution of specific cluster categories across the country, and 
the cluster portfolios of each Indian district and state. The information derived from this 
database is instrumental in identifying India’s prominent clusters, as well as evaluating the 
robustness of cluster portfolios in different districts and states.
Automotive
Pharmaceutical and 
Food Processing
Textile Manufacturing
Manufacturing 
Clusters
Chemical

--- PAGE 62 ---
62
This methodology is based on India cluster panorama report. ( Kapoor, Ketels, Debroy, & Negi, 
2023). The objective of this section of paper is to bridge the gap between these two realms 
of literature, bringing attention to the untapped potential of Porter’s model in unravelling the 
intricacies of clusters in countries like India.
Under-
standing 
Cluster 
approach 
using PLFS & 
Prowess data 
The cluster approach is employed to comprehensively understand the performance and 
dynamics of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) within the Indian economy. The UDYAM 
portal data reveals that a significant proportion, specifically 81 percent, of MSMEs operate 
as proprietorships, with 80 per cent falling into the Microenterprise category. Recognising 
the prevalence of such ownership structures, it becomes crucial to analyse and assess the 
performance of these enterprises collectively, which the cluster approach facilitates.
Performance 
Comparison of 
India’s MSMEs 
with other 
Countries.
Table: 2 Percentage
Organisation Type Micro Small Medium
Proprietary 98.67 1.28 0.05
Hindu Undivided Family 97.42 2.41 0.17
Partnership 90.00 9.28 0.72
Co-Operative 97.54 1.97 0.48
Private Limited Company 90.70 7.90 1.39
Public Limited Company 91.64 5.80 2.56
Self Help Group 99.87 0.12 0.01
Others 99.78 0.20 0.02
Limited Liability Partnership 92.77 6.33 0.90
Society 96.91 2.62 0.47
Trust 96.47 2.79 0.73
Source: UDYAM (2020- jan 13 2025) 
PLFS data contributes valuable insights by classifying proprietary and partnership enterprises 
as part of the informal sector. PLFS is a household-level survey conducted by the National 
Statistical Office (NSO) to assess India's labour market. It gathers data on employment, 
demographics, industry, education, and wages. For our analysis, we use data from surveys 
between 2017-18 and 2022-23, which cover annually both formal and informal economic 
activities at the state and district levels. and is a longitudinal exercise. This categorisation is 
pivotal in understanding the landscape within which a substantial portion of SMEs operates. 
Specifically, the data indicates that 74.3 percent of workers engaged in proprietary and 
partnership enterprises are involved in the non-agriculture sector. This information is 
instrumental in comprehending the nature of employment within these enterprises and 
highlights the significance of activities in informal sector.

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
NIC Code Description Share
10 Manufacture of food products 18.58
13 Manufacture of textiles 8.83
14 Manufacture of wearing apparel 7.65
20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products 2.38
27 Manufacture of electrical equipment 2.13
21 Manufacture of pharmaceuticals, medicinal 
chemical and botanical products 0.90
29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-
trailers 0.81
11 Manufacture of beverages 0.87
30 Manufacture of other transport equipment 0.59
Understanding SMEs' performance from PLFS data allows for a more nuanced analysis of their 
contribution, employment patterns, and overall impact on the informal sector. This, in addition 
to UDYAM data, can contribute to filling the gaps in understanding the MSMEs. Understanding 
SME performance using PLFS data offers a holistic perspective on economic activity, aiding in 
the formulation of cluster programmes, targeted strategies and policies to foster the growth 
and sustainability of these enterprises.
When we look at formalisation of MSMEs in these manufacturing 
sectors, we find that: 
Source: UDYAM (2020- jan 13 2025) 
The firm-level data utilized in this study is sourced from the Prowess database, which 
is administered by the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy. Prowess aggregates 
information predominantly derived from the income statements and balance sheets of publicly 
listed companies. The database encompasses companies that collectively contribute to over 
70 percent of the economic activity within the organized industrial sector of India. (Topalova, 
2004)
To further gauge the value added by Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) across 
various industries—food processing, manufacture of transport equipment, textile, chemical, 
and pharmaceuticals—we leveraged firm-level data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian 
Economy’s (CMIE) Prowess database. This database encompasses crucial information 
extracted from profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of Indian enterprises to offer 
insights into sales, investments, assets, and ownership type of firms.

--- PAGE 64 ---
64
CMIE 
Prowess 
database – 
Methodology 
Definition of Segments and 
Value-Added Calculation
Identification of Enterprises 
Step: 1
Step: 3
In the initial step of this analysis, segments for the computation of value added were identified 
using the National Industrial Classification Codes. The chosen segments for this calculation 
are outlined as follows:
Data Extraction 
Step: 2
For the fiscal years 2014-2022, data extraction was performed, covering indicators such 
as changes in stock, compensation to employees, insurance premiums, miscellaneous 
expenditures, packaging costs, power/fuel/water charges, purchase of finished goods, raw 
materials, rent/lease, repairs/maintenance, sales, and total income.
In the process of ‘Filtering and Identification Based on Sales Thresholds,’ a meticulous 
approach was adopted to specifically delineate Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises 
(MSMEs). This involved the application of a discerning sales-based filter, isolating companies 
NIC Division/
Group Code
NIC Name
101 Processing and preserving of meat
102 Processing and preserving of fish, crustaceans and molluscs
103 Processing and preserving of fruit and vegetables
104 Manufacture of vegetable and animal oils and fats
105 Manufacture of dairy products
106 Manufacture of grain mill products, starches and starch products
107 Manufacture of other food products
108 Manufacture of prepared animal feeds
110 Manufacture of beverages
13 Manufacture of textiles
14 Manufacture or wearable apparel
201 Manufacture of basic chemicals, fertilizer and nitrogen compounds, plastics 
and synthetic rubber in primary forms
202 Manufacture of other chemical products
203 Manufacture of man-made fibres
29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers
30 Manufacture of other transport equipment

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
Data Cleaning
Value-Added Calculation and Analysis
Step: 4
Step: 5
To ensure data accuracy, firms with missing values on the aforementioned indicators were 
systematically filtered out during the cleaning process.
The cost of intermediate consumption was computed by aggregating relevant expenses, 
enabling the determination of value added (total income minus cost of intermediate 
consumption) for each fiscal year. Subsequently, the year-on-year percentage increase in 
value-added was calculated and visually presented, providing a comprehensive overview of 
industry dynamics.
Limitations
The dataset's relatively small sample size may limit its representativeness of the 
broader MSME landscape in India, as it predominantly includes firms adhering 
to standardised bookkeeping practices. This exclusion may introduce potential 
inaccuracies in assessing the true value added by diverse enterprises, especially 
micro-enterprises that may not follow such practices.
Limited Sample Size: 
with sales figures falling within the Rs.2500 million range. The primary objective of this 
filter is to precisely identify and distinguish MSMEs from larger corporations. The analysis is 
strategically tailored to concentrate on enterprises within the delineated MSME category by 
implementing a defined sales threshold. This deliberate refinement enhances the precision of 
the examination of MSMEs, allowing for a more nuanced understanding which distinguishes 
MSMEs from larger corporations. 
A significant number of missing values in the dataset poses a challenge to the 
reliability and comprehensiveness of the analysis. The absence of data points may 
result in gaps in crucial indicators, affecting the accuracy of value-added calculations. 
This limitation underscores the need for cautious interpretation of findings.
The proprietary data collection methodology employed by the Centre for Monitoring 
the Indian Economy (CMIE) may deviate from national and international standards. 
This distinction should be considered in interpreting the analysis’s findings.
Missing Values:
Methodological Variations:

--- PAGE 66 ---
66
Cluster Level 
Analysis


--- PAGE 67 ---
67
Textile Manufacturing 
and Apparel
1.
The examination of both textile manufacturing and apparel clusters is indispensable 
for obtaining a thorough comprehension of the textile sector’s multifaceted dynamics. 
Delving into the textile manufacturing cluster offers insights into the initial stages of the 
supply chain, encompassing processes like spinning, weaving, and fabric production. 
This understanding is crucial for assessing the economic activity and trade dynamics 
associated with raw material processing. 
Conversely, examining the apparel cluster provides a holistic perspective on downstream 
activities, from design to finished product, shedding light on value addition, employment 
trends, and export earnings. Together, these analyses contribute to a nuanced 
understanding of the sector’s global competitiveness, supply chain integration, and 
aid in the formulation of targeted policies to foster sustainable growth and innovation 
throughout the entire textile industry.
Value addition in Textiles Manufacturing and Apparel sector 
The analysis of SMEs assessed showcases value addition within the textile manufacturing 
sector, focusing on activities such as spinning, weaving, and finishing, the manufacturing 
of other textiles, and the production of apparel. This reveals critical insights into the 
sector's global dynamics spanning from 2014 to 2022. 
GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange 
of investment, knowledge, and managerial practices that are 
in line with global standards, thereby significantly bolstering 
domestic businesses

--- PAGE 68 ---
68
 » The "Spinning, weaving, and finishing" sub-cluster appears dominant in terms of value 
addition. A significant increase, particularly in 2022, shows that the 339 enterprises under 
this NIC consistently exhibit higher value addition than other sub-clusters. However, the 
dominance of "spinning, weaving, and finishing" is often considered an upstream activity 
in the textile production process, potentially raising concerns due to lower value addition 
compared to downstream activities.
 » Conversely, the "Manufacturing of other textile" sub-cluster experienced fluctuations, 
responsive to global economic conditions and market demand, with a notable increase in 
2022 signifying potential resurgence amid changing market dynamics. 
 » In the context of the textile industry, downstream activities, such as the "Manufacture of 
wearing apparel," involve creating final consumer goods with higher potential for value 
addition. Concerns arise as the SMEs related to final manufacturing stages exhibits lower 
value addition, indicating potential challenges for sector competitiveness in global value 
chains. 
Value addition in 
firms with sale 
<250 crores
Fig. 8
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Textile Manufacturing 
Spinning, weaving 
and finishing
Apparel Manufacture 
of wearing apparel
Textile 
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing 
of other textile
10000
0
20000
30000
40000
50000
Workforce Trends 
0 1,00,000 2,00,000 3,00,000 4,00,000 5,00,000 6,00,000 7,00,000 8,00,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 50,000
₹ 100,000
₹ 150,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 250,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 350,000
₹ 400,000
₹ 450,000
₹ 500,000
Average wages
Mumbai Suburban
Raigarh
Ghaziabad
Chhindwara
Thane
Coimbatore
Hugli Salem
Karur Surat
Varanasi
Haora
Vellore
0 50,000 1,00,000 1,50,000 2,00,000 2,50,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 50,000
₹ 100,000
₹ 150,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 250,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 350,000
₹ 400,000
₹ 450,000
₹ 500,000
₹ 550,000
Average wages
Pune
Jalandhar
Rajkot
Moradabad
Hardwar
Jaipur Mumbai Suburban
Thane
Indore
Tumkur
BangaloreCoimbatore
Ahmedabad
SuratThiruvallur
Kottayam
Haora
North Twenty Four Parganas
AnantapurTiruvannamalai
Jammu
Textile Manufacturing Top 100 Districts Apparel-  Top 100 DistrictsFig. 9

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
Textile Manufacturing 
In 2022-23, the textile manufacturing cluster in India encompassed a workforce of 53 lakh, 
reflecting a notable 15.86% reduction from the 63 lakh workers recorded in 2017-18. The 
overall productivity of this cluster demonstrated only marginal increase of 1.16% over the six-
year period. 
23%
A state-level analysis reveals that
exhibiting a workforce growth 
more than 6 % since 2017-18. 
Examination of the district-level distribution indicates that Surat in 
Gujarat and Tirupur in Tamil Nadu have the highest average wages 
and workforce participation within the cluster, capturing high total 
workforce, respectively. On examining Gujarat, Surat demonstrates 
a stark contrast with Ahmedabad in terms of workforce share and 
average wages in gujarat, with the former accounting for 70% of the 
workforce but displaying lower productivity than Ahmedabad. 
Gujarat holds the highest share in the national textile workforce at
Contrastingly, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh experienced a decline in 
their workforce shares during the same period. 
A similar trend is observed in Uttar Pradesh, where Ghaziabad productivity is high but 
constitutes less than of the total workforce of UP in textile, while Bareilly, with a 15.41% 
workforce share, contributes merely 1.24% to the state’s average wage. This uneven trend 
suggests specialized expertise in certain areas and lower output in others within these 
states’ textile manufacturing clusters.
Apparel
In the fiscal year 2022-23, the apparel cluster in India engaged a workforce of approximately 
19 lakh individuals, reflecting a decline of 13.42% in employment and a 9.07% decrease in 
wages since 2017-18. 
19.02%
Tamil Nadu emerged as the leading state with the highest 
share in the workforce at
followed by West Bengal, Karnataka, 
Maharashtra, and Punjab, 
contributing 16.24%, 13.76%, 
11.21%, and 7.759%, respectively. 

--- PAGE 70 ---
70
Food Processing 2.
Value addition in the Food Processing Cluster
The analysis of value added in 433 enterprises across various NIC codes of 101-108 from 
2014 to 2022 provides insights into the performance and trends within different activities. The 
presence of both upstream and downstream activities highlights the interconnectedness of 
the local and traded cluster, indicating that a disruption in one may affect the others.
Among these states, only West Bengal experienced an increase in the number of workers by 
3.39%, followed by Gujarat with a 2.13% growth. Tamil Nadu also secured the highest share 
in average wages at 12.80% in 2020-21, succeeded by Delhi and Karnataka with shares of 
9.66% and 8.32%, respectively. Notably, West Bengal, ranking second in workforce share 
among states, exhibited a nominal 2.93% share in total wages. 
Conversely, Haryana, with a 0.39% workforce share, held a substantial 8.31% share in average 
wages. In Tamil Nadu, Tirupur dominated with a remarkable 49.81% share in workforce, 
experiencing an increase from 43.45% in 2017-18. However, subsequent districts, such as 
Erode, Tiruvallur, and Coimbatore, displayed significantly lower workforce shares. The top five 
positions in share of wages mirrored the workforce distribution, with Tirupur commanding 
46.68%, followed by Coimbatore, Erode, and Tiruvallur. In Karnataka, Bangalore emerged with 
the highest workforce share at 70.09%, yet its share in average wages was a modest 7.78%. 
Conversely, Kolar and Hassan, with workforce shares of 0.57% and 0.73%, respectively, led 
the state in average wages, emphasizing regional disparities in productivity within the apparel 
cluster.
Value Added in Food 
Processing with 
sales < 250 crores 
Fig. 10
Manufacture of 
prepared animal feeds
Manufacture of other 
food products
Manufacture of 
grain mill products, 
starches, and starch 
products
Manufacture of 
dairy products
Manufacture of 
vegetable and 
animal oils and fats 0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
35000
40000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
Upstream Activities 
 » The NIC code 107, involving the manufacture of other food products, stands out with a 
significant increase in value added over the years, especially in 2016 and 2020, showcasing a 
robust growth trajectory. 
 » Conversely, Enterprises related to NIC code 108, i.e manufacture of prepared animal feeds, 
experienced fluctuations, with a substantial decrease in 2020. The % increase in value added 
indicates varying degrees of value addition across different enterprises.
 » Enterprises associated with the NIC codes of upstream activities, such as the manufacture 
of grain mill products, starches, and starch products (106) and the manufacture of 
vegetable and animal oils and fats (104), show moderate and consistent growth. This 
suggests a stable foundation for these industries, contributing significantly to the overall 
value added. 
 » On the other hand, NIC code 105, enterprises encompassing the manufacture of dairy 
products, displays a mixed performance, indicating potential challenges or changing market 
dynamics.
Downstream Activities 
Workforce Trends 
 » Enterprises in NIC codes 107 and 108 seem to be dominant, emphasising the importance of 
processed food products. However, the fluctuations in value addition in enterprises under 
NIC 108 since 2020 raise concerns about its resilience. This could be attributed to external 
factors impacting the supply chain or market demand. 
In the examination of the food processing sector, two distinct segments are under scrutiny: 
Food Processing and Local Food and Beverages Distributions. 
0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 80,000 90,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 100,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 400,000
₹ 500,000
₹ 600,000
₹ 700,000
₹ 800,000
₹ 900,000
₹ 1,000,000
₹ 1,100,000
Average wages
Aurangabad
Gurgaon
29
Raigarh Udaipur
BangaloreJind
Dhar
Nashik
Mumbai Suburban Ahmedabad
Sangrur
Nagpur
Chittoor ThaneKrishnaHugliIndore
Haora
DarjilingRaisen Buldana
0 50,000 1,00,000 1,50,000 2,00,000 2,50,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 50,000
₹ 100,000
₹ 150,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 250,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 350,000
₹ 400,000
Average wages
Pune
Kancheepuram
Aurangabad
29
SataraKolar
Jammu North West Delhi
Gurgaon ChennaiRaigarh
Thane
Solan
BangaloreCoimbatore Ghaziabad
Meerut
AhmedabadKanpur Nagar
Krishna
Alwar
Bhopal North Twenty Four Parganas
Indore
South Twenty Four ParganasSalem Surat
Guntur
Raisen LucknowAnantapurRaipurBastar
Bara Banki
Food Processing and Manufacturing Local Food and Beverage processing and distributioFig. 11

--- PAGE 72 ---
72
43
The food processing and manufacturing cluster 
in India engaged approximately
Lakh workers 
in 2020-21,
experiencing a notable 16% increase in average wages since 2017-18.
11.65%   10.22%.
 » Uttar Pradesh emerged as the leading state, boasting the 
highest share in both workforce and wages for this cluster at
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Rajasthan followed with shares of 10.26%, 
9.02%, 8.97%, and 7.59% in workforce, respectively. Notably, with the exception of Ladakh, 
Mizoram, and Sikkim, all states demonstrated activity in the food processing sector, with 
lower participation in Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Chandigarh, and Daman and Diu. 
&
 » Punjab, despite contributing a modest 3.98% to the workforce, commanded a 5.54% share in 
average wages, while West Bengal, with an 8.9% workforce share, only held a 3.35% share in 
average wages.
Upstream Activities 
 » Uttar Pradesh continued to dominate with a 15.12% share in workforce and a 9.85% share 
in average wages. Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Bihar followed with shares of 8.45%, 7.9%, 
and 7.5% in workforce, respectively. Notably, despite having lower workforce shares (4.99% 
and 4.38%), Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan made substantial contributions to average 
wages, with shares of 5.82% and 5.4%, respectively. West Bengal, with a high workforce 
share of 7.9%, held a comparatively low share of 2.41% in total average wages for the cluster.
 » Whereas, delving into the food processing and manufacturing cluster in Uttar Pradesh, a 
notable 11.78% increase in the workforce and a substantial 34.61% increase in total wages 
were observed in 2020-21 compared to 2017-18. The cluster displayed a dispersed pattern 
across districts of Uttar Pradesh, lacking significant specialization. 
 » Notably, Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Sitapur, and Balarampur covered the highest share in wages, 
while Shahjahanpur, Pilibhit, Kapur Nagar, and Jhansi contributed the most to the workforce. 
This lack of concentrated specialisation may be attributed to the state’s large size and 
population.
 » Similarly, in Maharashtra, districts such as Pune, Sangli, Kolhapur, and Nashik held 
substantial shares in the workforce, with Pune leading at 14.50%. However, their shares in 
average wages were slightly lower, indicating a disparity in productivity. Mumbai Suburban, 

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
with a 9.91% share in wages, employed only 3.57% of the workforce in the food processing 
cluster. Thane contributed 5.82% to total wages with a 4.91% share in the workforce. 
Despite Pune having the highest workforce share, its contribution to wages was only 4.55%. 
This trend was also observed in other districts, suggesting a nuanced relationship between 
workforce distribution and wage contribution in Maharashtra’s food processing sector.
Chemical Products3.
Value addition in the chemical sector
            The comprehensive analysis of value addition in the Chemicals 
sector from 2014 to 2022 takes into account the specific 
distribution of enterprises within cluster . Out of the 
total 1512 enterprises assessed, the manufacture of 
basic chemicals, fertilizer and nitrogen compounds, 
plastics, and synthetic rubber in primary forms 
constitutes 48%, highlighting its substantial 
presence in the industry. The steady and 
remarkable increase in value addition in this sub-
cluster underscores its dominant role, particularly 
in upstream activities. Similarly, the manufacture 
of other chemical products, representing 49% of 
the assessed enterprises, displays consistent growth, 
especially in 2022, indicating the      
       prominence of downstream activities. The manufacture of man-made 
fibres, although comprising 3% of the enterprises, exhibits noteworthy fluctuations and an 
overall positive trend, emphasizing the need for careful consideration in the analysis.
49%
48%
3%
basic chemicals, 
fertilizer and nitrogen 
compounds, plastics, 
and synthetic rubber
Other Chemical 
products
Basic man-made 
fibres
Value added in 
upstream and 
downstream 
activities of 
chemical cluster 
with sales < 250 
crores
Fig. 12
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
Rs. millions
1000000
1200000
1400000
1600000
1800000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Manufacture of 
basic chemicals, 
fertilizer and nitrogen 
compounds, plastics 
and synthetic rubber 
in primary forms
Manufacture of other 
chemical products
Manufacture of 
man-made fibres

--- PAGE 74 ---
74
In light of these insights, the Chemicals sector portrays a dynamic landscape where both 
upstream and downstream activities coexist and contribute significantly to the overall value 
addition. The dominance of basic chemical production, coupled with the growth in other 
chemical products, highlights the sector's adaptability and competitiveness. The relatively 
smaller share of enterprises involved in the manufacture of man-made fibres suggests a 
specialized niche within the industry, warranting focused attention in understanding its unique 
dynamics. This nuanced analysis underscores the importance of considering the diverse 
composition of enterprises when evaluating the performance and trends within the Chemicals 
sector.
Workforce Trends 
In the fiscal year 2022-23, the chemical industry in India was analyzed across two distinct 
clusters: upstream chemical and downstream chemical. The cumulative workforce within 
these clusters amounted to approximately 8.4 lakh workers, constituting 0.34% of the total 
payroll across all clusters. 
In the downstream chemical cluster
 » Virudhunagar in Tamil Nadu emerged as the district with the highest workforce share at 
16.31%, followed by Thane in Maharashtra (7.83%), Bharuch (6.36%), and Valsad (4.73%) 
in Gujarat. Notably, these districts witnessed substantial increases in workforce shares 
compared to 2017-18. 
0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 80,000 90,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 100,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 400,000
₹ 500,000
₹ 600,000
₹ 700,000
₹ 800,000
₹ 900,000
₹ 1,000,000
₹ 1,100,000
Average wages
Aurangabad
Gurgaon
29
Raigarh Udaipur
BangaloreJind
Dhar
Nashik
Mumbai Suburban Ahmedabad
Sangrur
Nagpur
Chittoor ThaneKrishnaHugliIndore
Haora
DarjilingRaisen Buldana
0 50,000 1,00,000 1,50,000 2,00,000 2,50,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 50,000
₹ 100,000
₹ 150,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 250,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 350,000
₹ 400,000
Average wages
Pune
Kancheepuram
Aurangabad
29
SataraKolar
Jammu North West Delhi
Gurgaon ChennaiRaigarh
Thane
Solan
BangaloreCoimbatore Ghaziabad
Meerut
AhmedabadKanpur Nagar
Krishna
Alwar
Bhopal North Twenty Four Parganas
Indore
South Twenty Four ParganasSalem Surat
Guntur
Raisen LucknowAnantapurRaipurBastar
Bara Banki
Top 100 Districts - Downstream 
Chemical Clusters
Top 100 Districts - Upstream Chemical ClusterFig. 13

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
In the upstream chemical cluster
 » Thane and Bharuch again emerged as the leading districts with 10.17% and 8.90% shares 
in the workforce, respectively. Gujarat maintained the highest state-level share in the 
workforce (27%) and average wage (14.45%) for upstream chemical clusters, despite 
experiencing declines in both workforce and average wages from 2017-18 to 2020-21. 
Maharashtra, Jharkhand, and Tamil Nadu followed suit in terms of state-level shares.
 » Gujarat’s nine districts with upstream chemical clusters exhibited varying workforce and 
average wage shares. Bharuch led with 32.89% in workforce and 17.27% in average wages, 
while Vadodara contributed 25.06% to the workforce and 8.27% to average wages. Kheda 
experienced a notable increase from 0.5% to 9.6% in workforce share and from almost 0% to 
17.48% in average wage share from 2017-18 to 2020-21.
 » Jharkhand, with three districts in the upstream chemical cluster, witnessed Purbi Singhbum 
commanding the highest workforce share at 81.25%, while Sarai Kela-Kharsawan exhibited 
a noteworthy 76.87% share in average wages with an 8.05% workforce contribution. Ranchi 
contributed 10.70% to the workforce and 13.48% to average wages. The state exhibited 
growth in both workforce and average wages shares from 2017-18, indicating the evolving 
landscape of chemical clusters.
Automotive 4.
Value addition in Automotive Sector
The examination of value added by 327 enterprises with yearly sales less than 250 crore, 
covering the period from 2014 to 2022, provides crucial insights into the automotive industry's 
performance:
 » The steady and continuous growth observed between 2014 and 2017 indicates a resilient 
and expanding automotive industry throughout this time period. However, a notable 
contraction occurred in 2018, characterised by a decline of 10.81%. This decline suggests 
that the industry may have faced potential challenges or disruptions during that particular 
fiscal period. The aforementioned negative trajectory continued into 2019 and 2020, during 
which it experienced additional declines of 7.17% and 14.09%, respectively. These figures 
seemingly arose from the influence of wider economic conditions, global trends, and sector-
specific obstacles. 
 » Mysore, Karnataka, claimed the highest share in average wages at 11.78%, despite having a 
modest 1.96% share in the workforce. Conversely, districts with high workforce shares, such 
as Virudhunagar, exhibited lower shares in average wages (0.30%). Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and 
Maharashtra dominated in terms of both workforce and average wage shares at the state 
level.

--- PAGE 76 ---
76
Workforce Trends 
The automotive sector in India employed an estimated 14 lakh workers during 2022-23. 
Despite an 18% increase in the total workforce from 2017-18, there was a noteworthy 
14% decrease in the overall wages within the cluster during the same period. District-level 
analysis revealed distinct patterns, with Bokaro, Nagpur, Mysore, Gurgaon, and Southwest 
Delhi exhibiting the higher productivity with a comparatively lower share in the workforce. 
In contrast, Pune, Ahmedabad, Kolhapur, Rewari, and Tiruvallur have the highest workforce 
share but lower productivity. 
Within the automotive sector, Maharashtra maintained its preeminent position by securing 
the highest share in average wages at 17.67%, followed sequentially by Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, 
Jharkhand, and Haryana. 
 » A significant recovery emerged within the automotive industry in 2021, marked by a 
value-added growth of 18.5%. The observed resurgence may indicate effective industry 
adjustments, recuperation from previous obstacles, or an improved market environment. 
The positive trajectory of expansion continued through 2022, reaching its pinnacle with a 
value-added of 55,892.8, surpassing the levels recorded in 2020. 
Value addition in 
automotive sector 
with sales <250 crores
Fig. 14
0
10000
20000
30000
40000
50000
60000
70000
80000
Rs. millions
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
Further, the analysis of districts in Maharashtra 
indicated varied dynamics, with Pune leading 
in workforce share (48.59%) but having a 
relatively low productivity as its average wage 
share in Maharashtra is just 7.8%. Whereas, 
in Tamil Nadu, Tiruvallur held the highest 
share in both workforce (23.57%) and average 
wages (11.27%). Gujarat showcased a diverse 
landscape, with Ahmedabad leading in 
workforce share (69.41%) and Mehsana leading 
in average wage share (16.59%). The intricacies 
of these trends underscore the need for 
nuanced strategies in the automotive industry, 
taking into account regional variations in 
workforce distribution and average wages.
Automotive- 
Top 100 District
Fig. 15
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 1,00,000 1,20,000 1,40,000 1,60,000 1,80,000
Number of workers
₹ 0
₹ 50,000
₹ 100,000
₹ 150,000
₹ 200,000
₹ 250,000
₹ 300,000
₹ 350,000
₹ 400,000
₹ 450,000
₹ 500,000
₹ 550,000
₹ 600,000
Average wages
Sonipat
Pune
Kancheepuram
Ernakulam
Krishnagiri
Chennai
Baghpat
North Twenty Four Parganas
IndoreThaneRaigarh
Gautam Buddha Nagar
Mumbai Suburban
KachchhTumkur Bangalore
ThiruvallurSatara
Nashik Mahesana
Bara Banki
South Twenty Four ParganasMadurai
Sabar Kantha
Nagapattinam

--- PAGE 78 ---
78
Policies for MSMEs 
Chapter 4 
in India


--- PAGE 79 ---
79
In this chapter, we delve into a comprehensive analysis of the policy landscape governing 
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India, aiming to augment our 
understanding of the challenges faced by these enterprises. While our analysis discerns 
the relevance of the objectives outlined in these policies, it also sheds light on areas 
where policy implementation can be refined, emphasizing the imperative for heightened 
sustainability.
In the next step, we broaden our perspective to encompass the schemes and initiatives 
implemented by various state governments in India, thereby creating a more detailed 
depiction of the decentralised policy ecosystem. Our investigation uncovers a certain 
disjointedness in state-level policies, indicative of a lack of uniformity and synchronised 
efforts across regions. This revelation underscores the necessity for a more cohesive 
and coordinated approach among states to fortify the collective impact of MSME 
policies. As we traverse through this chapter, we endeavour to unravel the intricacies 
of these policies, offering insights into their effectiveness, collaborative potential, and 
opportunities for refinement to foster a more conducive environment for the flourishing 
MSME sector in India.
Porter highlights the importance of building microeconomic 
capabilities in the national business environment where firms 
compete, without which the broader macro-framework would 
not bear fruit . This understanding is especially significant in 
the Indian business scenario which harbours a majority of small 
enterprises. 
Evaluation 
of National-
Level 
Policies for 
MSMEs in 
India
The enactment of the MSMED Act in 2006 marked a pivotal milestone in creating a 
conducive policy framework for advancing the MSME sector in India. This legislation not 
only provided a definitive classification for MSMEs as opposed to the previous “Small 
Scale Industries” but also established a foundation for bolstering their competitiveness. 
Before this Act, small industries in India were referred to as Small Scale Industries (SSIs) 
under the Industrial Development and Regulation (IDR) Act of 19519 , which encompassed 
tiny, cottage, traditional, and village enterprises. The MSMED Act of 2006 established 
a legal framework, defining the concept of an ‘enterprise’ to include manufacturing 
and service entities and categorising them into three tiers: Micro, Small, and Medium. 
The classification of MSMEs varies globally, relying on diverse factors like turnover, 
workforce size, and investment. 
9      https://www.dcmsme.gov.in/publications/circulars/circularmay1994.html


--- PAGE 80 ---
80
In India, historically, the definition was contingent on the number of employees as per the 
Industrial Development and Regulation (IDR) Act of 1951. However, due to challenges in 
obtaining accurate employment data and the fact that most enterprises in India are Own 
Account Enterprises, informal, and/or employ very few labourers due to the complexity in labour 
laws (Khatri, A Study of the Challenges of the Indian MSME Sector, 2019), the focus shifted 
to using investments in plant, machinery, and equipment as a reliable proxy. Recently, there 
has been a shift towards a turnover-based definition due to issues with data reliability and to 
account for depreciation in the definition on the basis of plant and machinery. The original 
investment-based criteria set in 2006 doesn’t fully align with the present cost index of plant and 
machinery (Sinha U. K., 2019). Additionally, many MSMEs operate informally, without proper 
accounting practices, making it challenging for them to fit within the current definition criteria, 
highlighting the necessity for periodic adjustments in line with evolving economic conditions. As 
a move to overcome these shortcomings, in July 2020, the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises revised the definition of MSMEs to take into account the changing circumstances by 
giving primacy to the classification on the basis of turnover rather than investment in plant and 
machinery10 . Given the changing circumstances, it’s crucial to shift the focus of this important 
legislation towards making it easier for MSMEs to operate in the market. The goal is to tackle key 
challenges like limited infrastructure, informal practices, adopting new technologies, building 
capacity, establishing market linkages, accessing credit, and securing investment. 
Both the Government of India and state governments have been proactive in introducing 
many schemes and policies to bolster this sector. Yet, MSMEs continue to grapple with issues 
concerning formalisation, access to technology, timely and adequate financial support, 
enhancement of competitiveness, availability of skilled workforce, and market linkages. India has 
a range of institutions dedicated to addressing the challenges faced by MSMEs. The Ministry of 
MSME oversees policy formulation for its holistic advancement, and various organisations under 
the Office of Development Commissioner MSME execute these policies. The MSMED Act of 2006 
encompasses provisions to promote and nurture the MSME sector. SIDBI serves as the principal 
financial institution supporting MSME financing and development. RBI and SEBI establish 
overarching policies to facilitate financial backing for the sector. While these bodies have played 
a crucial role through legislation and policies in driving sectoral growth, crafting targeted 
policies in areas such as infrastructure, formalisation, technology integration, linkages, credit 
accessibility, and prompt payments to MSMEs, and ensuring their effective implementation, has 
proven to be a challenge for all stakeholders.
This section aims to assess the execution of the measures brought about at the national level 
to uplift MSMEs. The evaluation of the schemes under consideration is grounded in a multi-
dimensional approach, drawing from a combination of audit reports by the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India (CAG), annual reports by the implementation authorities of the schemes, 
and existing academic literature. The success of any scheme can be gauged by the physical 
and financial progress carried out under the scheme, as well as its socio-economic impact. This 
information is made available by the CAG of India in their annual audit reports. These reports 
were leveraged as a critical source of evidence. Additionally, a review of academic literature 
pertaining to the schemes for the MSME sector in India was conducted. The literature review 
served to contextualise the evaluation within the broader academic discourse, providing 
empirical insights and comparative analyses with schemes of peer economies.
10     Revised Classification of MSMEs w.e.f 1st July 2020
Both the 
Government of 
India and state 
governments 
have been 
proactive in 
introducing 
many schemes 
and policies 
to bolster this 
sector.

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
Examination 
of Key 
policies 
designed 
to assist 
MSMEs
Credit Guarantees Trust 
for MSMEs 
1.
Financial inclusion for MSMEs is imperative for economic growth. However, the persistent 
credit gap excludes them from India’s formal financial institutions. A significant reason for the 
limited access to bank financing in this industry is the banks’ perception of high risk when 
lending to micro and small enterprises (MSEs). The challenge of providing collateral, especially 
for very small businesses seeking small loans and first-generation entrepreneurs, makes it 
harder for them to access finance for their enterprise. (Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium 
Enterprises)
In response, the Ministry of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises, in collaboration with the 
Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), established the Credit Guarantee Fund 
Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) in 2000. The main objective was to offer 
a collateral-free guarantee for loans and advances, which include term loans and working 
capital assistance, provided by lending institutions to both new and existing Micro and Small 
Enterprises. Additionally, lending institutions are required to pay guarantee fees, annual 
service fees, and other charges as determined by the Government of India and SIDBI (About 
CGTMSE, 2023).
Credit Guarantee Scheme for Banks (CGS-I): 
Credit Guarantee Scheme for NBFCs (CGS-II): 
Credit Guarantee Scheme for Subordinate Debt (CGSSD): 
Credit Guarantee Scheme for PM SVANidhi (CGS-PMS): 
Credit Guarantee Scheme for Co-Lending (CGSCL): 
The scheme provides credit guarantees of up to ₹5 crore for unsecured loans to MSMEs. This 
includes special benefits for certain groups, such as women, SC/ST entrepreneurs, and those 
in aspirational districts. A ‘Hybrid Security Model’ is available for partially collateralised loans.
It was launched in 2017 to help NBFCs provide easier access to credit 
for MSMEs. 
The Scheme, launched in June 2020, provided credit to stressed MSMEs. It ended on March 
31, 2023. The aim was to help MSME promoters infuse funds into their businesses through 
equity, quasi-equity, or sub-debt.
This scheme was launched to help street vendors affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. It 
provided working capital loans and encouraged them to formalise their businesses and adopt 
digital payments.
The RBI introduced the co-lending model, which aims to improve credit access for 
underserved sectors. It combines the lower cost of funds from banks with the wider reach of 
NBFCs. The CGTMSE launched the CGSCL in February 2022 to further support this model, 
providing guarantee coverage for loans extended jointly by banks and NBFCs.
CGTMSE has five schemes under its umbrella:

--- PAGE 82 ---
82
In the last five years, from 2018-19 to 2022-23, the number of approved guarantees has 
increased significantly, with 2022-23 reaching 11,65,786 approvals, a substantial rise from 
4,35,520 in 2018-19 at a CAGR of 27.91%. The guarantee amount has shown consistent 
growth, especially a sharp rise in 2022-23 to ₹1,06,474 crore, almost doubling the previous 
year's amount of ₹55,218 crore. The dip observed in the above graph in 2020-21 can be 
attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic. The sharp increase starting 2021-22 perhaps resulted 
from the launch of PM SVANidhi Scheme.
Additionally, the CGTMSE’s average loan size peaked in 2022-23 at ₹8,98,801, the highest in 
the last five years, rising from ₹6,92,689 in 2018-19 at a CAGR of 6.73%.
Approved 
Guarantees 
and Amount by 
CGTMSE
Average size of 
Loans approved 
by CGTMSE
Fig. 16
Fig. 17
₹ 0.00
0
₹ 1,00,000
200000
₹ 2,00,000
400000
₹ 3,00,000
600000
₹ 4,00,000
800000
₹ 5,00,000
1000000
₹ 6,00,000
1200000
₹ 7,00,000
1400000
₹ 8,00,000
₹ 9,00,000
₹ 10,00,000
2018-19
2018-19
2019-20
2019-20
2020-21
2020-21
2021-22
2021-22
2022-23
2022-23

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
Issues in the Scheme
This concern remained in the committee’s 68th report about “Action taken by the Government 
on the Observations/Recommendations contained in the Forty-Sixth Report (17th Lok Sabha) 
on the subject ‘Strengthening Credit Flows to the MSME Sector”.
The CGTMSE, operating as a registered trust, relies on a 4:1 ratio of contributions from the 
Government of India and SIDBI to its corpus fund. Member Lending Institutions (MLIs) must 
register and form a formal agreement with CGTMSE to access guarantees for MSE credit. MLIs 
include commercial banks that enter into an agreement CGTMSE and can apply guarantee 
cover in respect of eligible credit facility sanctioned to any eligible borrower11. However, 
procedural inefficiencies are evident.
These issues affect both the institutions and the MSMEs they serve. Institutions struggle with 
a lack of regulatory support and procedural consistency, leading to resource misallocation. 
Operational challenges include accountability lapses, delayed settlements, and a slow claim 
process. 
“Strengthening Credit Flows to the MSME Sector”, it was highlighted
In the 46th report of the Standing Committee on Finance (17th Lok Sabha) titled
that only a few MSME enterprises are 
managing to get collateral-free loans under 
the Government schemes, with majority being 
compelled to furnish adequate collateral even 
after being eligible for collateral-free loans. As 
more than 99 percent of the MSMEs belong 
to the micro sector they typically have no 
collateral to offer to banks.
11     https://www.cgtmse.in/Home/VS/94

--- PAGE 84 ---
84
For MSMEs, the burden of high guarantee fees on top of already significant interest 
rates makes accessing the scheme costly. Recognising these challenges, experts have 
recommended increasing the guarantee cover, absorbing guarantee fees, streamlining 
procedures, and offering truly collateral-free loans under certain conditions. Responding to 
this, a restructured CGTMSE scheme was introduced in April 2023, with a notable ₹9,000 
crore boost from the Union Budget FY 2023-24 to guarantee an additional ₹2 lakh crore for 
MSEs. The scheme’s updates include halving the guarantee fees for loans up to ₹1 crore 
and reducing the minimum fee to 0.37% annually. The guarantee cap has been raised from 
₹2 crore to ₹5 crore, and the threshold for claim settlements without legal action has been 
increased to ₹10 lakh. ((Mund, 2020) (Anu & Lakshmisree, 2013; Anu & Lakshmisree, 2013)).
MSMEs also face NPA challenges, as RBI’s classification criteria (principal or interest payment 
remained overdue for 90 days) doesn’t align with the sector’s working capital cycle. Extending 
the classification period to 180 days, which takes into consideration the enterprise’s payment 
abilities and allows restructuring without downgrading accounts, can provide breathing space 
for MSMEs12 .
For CGTMSE to effectively address credit access challenges, a comprehensive policy 
framework with robust checks and balances is essential, enabling both borrowers and lenders 
to fully utilise the credit system.
Key Takeaways from other countries
In many developing nations in Asia and the Pacific, the credit system is mainly centred 
around banks, with nonbank financial institutions playing a minor role. The lack of credit 
infrastructure, such as credit and collateral registries, contributes to information imbalances 
that hinder credit access (Asian Development Bank, 2022).
In Asia’s developing countries, the primary institutional credit mechanism is Credit Guarantee 
Schemes (CGSs), which have effectively addressed information imbalances and expanded 
credit access for SMEs. These schemes share the default risk with financial institutions, 
allowing SMEs to navigate traditional credit assessments and institutional preferences.
When comparing India’s CGTMSE with similar schemes in other countries like Korea’s KODIT, 
Japan’s JFC, Malaysia’s CGCM, and Indonesia’s PUJKI, it’s evident that India’s CGTMSE has 
a smaller corpus or fund size. This smaller corpus has also increased at a slow pace and 
selective provision of services by the Indian CGS.  Some of these schemes have evolved 
into credit information bureaus, providing SMEs with reliable risk assessments, along with 
provision of services that facilitate access to finance and ensure efficient operations with 
strong risk management practices. In contrast, CGTMSE lacks additional support services for 
MSMEs and has limited direct interaction with them. (Asian Development Bank, 2022)
In Asia’s 
developing 
countries, 
the primary 
institutional 
credit 
mechanism 
is Credit 
Guarantee 
Schemes 
(CGSs), which 
have effectively 
addressed 
information 
imbalances and 
expanded credit 
access for 
SMEs.

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
These restrictions hinder the competitiveness of Indian MSMEs despite their proportion in 
the economy. The competitiveness of MSMEs extends beyond credit access; it encompasses 
the entire credit utilisation process. Recognising and improving services related to credit 
access, ensuring efficient resource allocation at the enterprise, government, and institutional 
levels, and creating an enabling environment based on ground-level challenges is crucial. This 
approach, focused on aiding sound financial decision-making and risk mitigation rather than 
merely offering access to a select group of formalised MSMEs, can significantly amplify the 
scheme’s impact.
This approach, 
focused on 
aiding sound 
financial 
decision-
making and risk 
mitigation rather 
than merely 
offering access 
to a select group 
of formalised 
MSMEs, can 
significantly 
amplify the 
scheme’s 
impact.
Assistance to Training 
Institutions Scheme
2.
The Assistance to Training Institutions Scheme, overseen by the Ministry of Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises, Government of India, is a centrally sponsored initiative. It extends 
financial aid to training institutions, aiming to enhance skill development within the MSME 
sector. The scheme's primary objectives encompass upgrading training infrastructure, creating 
and delivering innovative programs, and imparting skills to a significant number of individuals 
for the MSME sector's benefit (Invest India, 2023).
87%
Under this programme, it was found that from 2012-13 to 2019-20, 
of the allocated 17,615 training 
programs were completed,
training approximately 87% of the target of 4.7 lakh persons.
However, investigation into the scheme's performance by the CAG audit (Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India, 2021) reveals several critical aspects of the training programs under 
review.
 » Assigning training programs to unauthorized agencies and setting training targets for 
institutions without considering their capacity and staff strength led to overburdened staff and 
inefficient training.
 » The Ministry neglected to assess the necessary skills before designing skill development 
programs.
 » The Ministry's sanction orders failed to establish targets for training institutes regarding 
indigenous entrepreneurship, wage employment, or trainee self-employment. There was an 
absence of post-training employment or entrepreneurship targets and monitoring mechanisms.
 » Invoices and a number of completed trainings were fabricated. About 70% of the recorded 
trainees were legitimate, with instances of duplicate and unclear duplicate trainees. The 
unutilised training funds were neither reported to the Ministry nor returned by the institutions, 
highlighting a lack of transparency and accountability in financial management

--- PAGE 86 ---
86
The Ministry failed to realise the intended results of the schemes primarily due to the absence 
of a proper assessment of necessary skills, skill gaps, and the trade-offs involved in conducting 
these trainings. Additionally, there were no requirements set by the Ministry for training 
institutions to ensure the employability of trainees and guarantee the desired outcomes of the 
training programs.
The scheme's incapacity to effectively address a fundamental skilling issue discourages 
enterprises from engaging in government programs. This, in turn, deprives them of affordable 
and relevant training opportunities, forcing them to rely on costly upskilling courses that are 
hard to access. This obstacle significantly hampers the scalability and competitiveness of 
MSMEs.
Public Procurement Policy 
2012, for Micro and Small 
Enterprises
3.
The Public Procurement Policy for Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India 
mandates that central government ministries and departments should procure at least 
25% of their annual goods and services from MSMEs, with an additional 4% from MSMEs 
owned by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The fundamental motive of this Policy 
is to advance and develop Micro and Small Enterprises by aiding them in marketing their 
products and services. The primary objectives are to foster the growth of MSMEs, enhance 
their participation in public procurement, and ensure equitable opportunities for them. These 
objectives rely on principles of competitiveness, adherence to sound procurement practices, 
and the execution of supplies in accordance with a system that is fair, transparent, competitive, 
and cost-effective. To promote greater involvement of MSEs in government procurement, 
Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) are encouraged to conduct Vendor Development 
Programmes or Buyer-Seller Meets, particularly for SC/ST entrepreneurs (Public Procurement 
Policy, 2016)13 .
The CAG Audit (Comptroller and Auditor General of India, 2018) encompassing various 
procurement practices and compliance within the Central Public Sector Enterprises found 
that there have been shortcomings in procurement targets and compliance, payment issues to 
vendors, outstanding dues, billing practices, and conducting vendor development programs. 
This necessitates a need for stronger regulations, better financial management, transparency 
in transactions and clearer policy communication and enforcement mechanisms. The handling 
of complaints and grievances also raised concerns. While complaints were received, it was 
found that they were not adequately processed through the grievance cell. Furthermore, 
the outcomes of these complaints were not updated on the portal, indicating a lack of 
transparency and accountability in addressing vendor concerns. Nodal officers, important for 
coordination and communication not appointed by all CPSEs. The website was rarely updated 
with procurement plans or updates.
13    Evidence to support achievements of participation in Vender Development Programmes could not be furnished 
hence the successful execution for the same cannot be verified (https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/Vendor_
Development_Programme_Ancillarisation.pdf)
The primary 
objectives 
are to foster 
the growth 
of MSMEs, 
enhance their 
participation 
in public 
procurement, 
and ensure 
equitable 
opportunities 
for them. 


--- PAGE 87 ---
87
Micro and Small Enterprises: 
Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP)
3.
This highlights India’s challenges related to the capacity of policy administration, leading to 
significant issues and uncertainties in the implementation of SME support measures. Along with 
this, anti-competitive practices like corruption meddle with schemes like public procurement in 
India leading to artificial inflation in prices  (Patil, 2017) . In a nation where the missing middle 
persists with a missing small as well, these schemes are crucial as they offer opportunities for 
such enterprises to engage in the market. The inefficiency in these programs not only hampers 
competition among existing enterprises by restricting diversity and inadvertently favouring 
larger businesses, but it also establishes obstacles to the entry of new and emerging small 
businesses.
14 A Common Facility Centre (CFC) is defined as an infrastructural 
hub for processing, training, marketing, raw material depot, 
effluent treatment, complementary production processes, testing 
laboratory, and ancillary activities for MSMEs (https://msme.gov.
in/sites/default/files/ModifiedGuidelinesofMSE_0.pdf)
15  A Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) is a company registered under 
Section 8 of Companies Act set up for the purpose of running 
projects under MSE-CDP. A company registered under 
Section 8 of the Companies Act is a non-profit organization 
with limited liability that aims to promote charitable 
activities, art, science, education, and sports. (https://
msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/FAQs-MSE-CDP.pdf, https://
www.icsi.edu/media/webmodules/publications/FAQs_on_
Section_8_Companies.pdf)
MSME Cluster Development is a program of the Government of India that aims to promote the 
growth and development of MSMEs by developing and upgrading their clusters. The objective 
of the scheme is to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of Micro and Small 
Enterprises (MSEs) for their holistic development. This involves providing financial assistance 
in the form of a Government of India (GoI) grant to establish Common Facility Centres (CFCs)14 
provide shared services to enterprises in existing clusters and for upgrading or establishing 
new Industrial Areas, Estates, and Flatted Factory Complexes. The scheme also involved the 
establishment of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)15  to leverage resources, enhance access to 
public resources, and improve linkages to credit and marketing competitiveness (Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India, 2021).
Applying for the MSE-CDP consists of a ten-step procedure according 
to the recently revised guidelines (Ministry of MSME). Such a 
complicated procedure may prove to be a hindrance and beyond 
the scope of the limited capabilities of Micro- and Small-
Enterprises. Additionally, the project approval process 
requires the applicants to produce multiple documents, 
including a project appraisal report and registered land 
documents, thus increasing the compliance burden 
on the enterprises. According to the newly released 
guidelines in 2022, the digital portal for the scheme 
would be revamped to include photographs of 
ongoing projects, a map of clusters across India, 


--- PAGE 88 ---
88
workflow of the scheme, and proposals to ensure transparency among applicants (Ministry of 
MSME, 2022). An inspection of the portal revealed that the aforementioned updates had not 
been made since the inception of the new guidelines in 2022. Furthermore, the guidelines 
indicate that UDYAM Data on detailed NIC Classification and PIN Codes of registered 
enterprises have been used to formulate detailed cluster maps of all states. This data is not 
available for perusal in the public domain.
Currently, 111 out of the 208 sanctioned Common Facility Centres (CFCs) in India have 
not been completed, and 111 out of 309 Infrastructure Development (ID) Projects are still 
ongoing.  (Ministry of MSME). 1,018 initiatives have been implemented across 964 clusters in 
29 States and 1 Union Territory as part of the program. A total expenditure of Rs. 75.01 Crore 
has been utilised during the financial year 2015-16, up to March 30, 2016, under the Micro 
and Small Enterprises-Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) to implement diverse 
interventions[12]. However, inadequate planning and implementation of the project, the 
inability to complete and operationalise the Common Facility Centre (CFC) due to delayed plot 
allotment to Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) members, insufficient infrastructure development, 
and the failure to secure the remaining grant from the Government of India (GoI), not only 
led to the non-achievement of scheme objectives but also made the expenditure of ₹8.89 
crore, including a GoI grant of ₹5.67 crore, invested in establishing the CFC unproductive. 
(Comptroller and Auditor General of India, 2021) (PIB, 2023) (Ministry of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises, 2023)
The limited effectiveness of a widely acknowledged competitiveness tool, such as cluster 
development, can be attributed to the incomplete adoption and application of this concept 
within the Indian context. The definition and formation of clusters in India are narrow and 
restrictive, considering geographical proximity as the main criterion. However, successful 
frameworks using cluster analysis consider complementarities, linkages and interconnections. 
Italy, a success story in cluster development, encompasses supporting industries in its 
programme and bases its analysis on “specialisation, cooperation and flexibility.” (Report of 
the Expert Committee on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, 2019). Indian MSMEs need 
a framework that considers both preceding and succeeding complementarities, forming a 
comprehensive system that enhances competitiveness across all facets of their growth.
Evaluation 
of State 
Policies
The Central Government in India has established a range of policies to bolster the MSME 
sector. These central schemes, while beneficial nationally, require state-level policies tailored 
to local industrial needs for MSMEs to be effective. State-level MSME policies, however, 
have not been the focus of extensive research and lack of consistent evaluation and detailed 
performance data. In our study, we adopted a structured approach to assess state-specific 
MSME policies across India. Initially, we collected policy documents from each state, 
categorizing them by the presence of a dedicated MSME policy or recent updates to their 
industrial policy. We then pinpointed four crucial pillars for MSME development and examined 
the initiatives each state implemented under these pillars. Through a comparative analysis, 
we evaluated the breadth and impact of these initiatives, offering insights into their potential 
effects on India’s MSME sector. However, our study was limited by the inability to perform 
The Central 
Government 
in India has 
established a 
range of policies 
to bolster the 
MSME sector. 

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
deep, on-the-ground analyses due to a lack of comprehensive data on policy implementation. 
This limitation restricted our ability to suggest highly effective policy recommendations. Our 
research serves as an initial, comprehensive step towards understanding state policy impacts 
on MSMEs and paves the way for future studies, contingent on the availability of more detailed 
data on policy performance.
The Central Government has implemented numerous policies to support the MSME sector, 
as discussed in detail in the preceding section. While these central schemes are designed to 
serve the entire nation, effective state-level policies are crucial for the growth of MSMEs as 
State-specific policies can be tailored to the unique requirements of industrial units within 
a particular state and can assist these units in addressing the specific challenges they 
face. The MSME policies at the state level is a subject that has not drawn much focus in the 
literature. The state policies thus have suffered from a lack of regular evaluations and scrutiny. 
There is also lack of information on the performance of such policies as even though these 
policies are implemented, there is lack of information regarding their performance at the grass 
roots level. In this section, we employed a structured methodology to evaluate the MSME 
policies of various states in India. Initially, we gathered policy documents from each state, 
classifying them based on whether they possessed a dedicated MSME policy document or had 
recently updated their industrial policy. Subsequently, we identified four fundamental pillars 
critical to MSME development and proceeded to scrutinize the initiatives implemented by each 
state under these identified pillars. 


--- PAGE 90 ---
90
Through a systematic comparative analysis, we assessed the scope and coverage of these 
initiatives. This methodological approach facilitated a nuanced evaluation of state-level 
policies, shedding light on their potential impact on the thriving MSME landscape in India. 
While we recognise the limitations inherent in our study, particularly our inability to conduct 
in-depth on-the-ground performance and implementation analyses of these policies, which 
consequently constrains our capacity to provide highly efficient policy recommendations for 
the states, the primary challenge we encountered during our analysis was the unavailability 
of comprehensive data regarding the execution of these policies. Our study would have been 
significantly more reflective of the actual on-the-ground conditions and outcomes of these 
schemes had there been access to high-quality data on the performance of these policies. 
However, our work can be taken as a very thorough first step towards making such an analysis 
of state policies and can lead to further research on the topic. 
Our research serves as an initial, comprehensive step towards 
understanding state policy impacts on MSMEs and paves the way for 
future studies, contingent on the availability of more detailed data on 
policy performance.


--- PAGE 91 ---
91
13     The states with MSME policy are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, 
Odisha, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. Detailed appendix
There are some significant efforts made by a few states to promote MSME development in the 
country. However, there is a general lack of adequate emphasis on this sector among state 
governments. The evidence for the lack of emphasis lies in the fact that only 15 out of the 
28 states16  have a specialised MSME policy in the country; for the other 13 states, either the 
MSME sector forms a small part of the elaborate industrial policy, or there is the absence of 
MSME-specific policies in the state. Although there has been a lack of adequate focus from 
the states on the sector, the states have made some progress in providing some impetus to 
the MSME units, especially in recovering the costs of setting up new businesses. There is a 
capital investment subsidy provided to the states, usually up to 25%, that helps MSMEs set up 
their plant and machinery and covers major capital expenditure for the same. The Stamp duty 
exemption of up to 100% is being provided to the sector, which incentivises the firms to set up 
and eventually formalise. To ascertain that the MSMEs are producing quality products and able 
to market their product better, the firms are encouraged to get certified through subsidies 
and reimbursement for costs incurred for certification. In addition to the financial incentive, 
a single window clearance system is established to make the process simpler for the units. 
Introducing the Zero Defect Zero Effect (ZED) certification is a new concept in the policy space. 
Acquisition of the ZED certification helps the firms publicise the fact that they have sustainable 
production methods and are able to market their products better, especially in the foreign 
market. While the state government’s initiatives represent a positive step towards addressing 
the challenges faced by MSMEs in the country, these policies fall short of adequately 
addressing the fundamental issues that hinder their growth and success. 

--- PAGE 92 ---
92
Learnings and 
Recommendations 


--- PAGE 93 ---
93
GVCs serve as critical facilitators of the international exchange 
of investment, knowledge, and managerial practices that are 
in line with global standards, thereby significantly bolstering 
domestic businesses
Learnings and 
Recommendations from 
National-Level Policies
1.
A. Access to Finance
i. Overhauling CGTMSE fund for Growth and Accessibility of MSME Credit
ii. Scaling up NBFCs
The Trust managing the CGTMSE fund lacks regulatory authority and oversight in its 
operations, governance, and access to state-owned funds. The government should 
bring the Trust under a regulatory authority to balance fund availability with financial 
discipline and support low-end entrepreneurial activities. Guarantee coverage 
should be raised to 100% for units led by women promoters to encourage women 
entrepreneurship. Also, there is a need to reduce CGTMSE premium rates to encourage 
even more wider adoption by micro and small enterprises. Lowering CGTMSE premium 
rates will expand access for micro and small enterprises. Also, to enhance transparency, 
the details of applicable CGTMSE premiums should be disclosed on participating banks’ 
websites or the CGTMSE portal for every member bank. 
Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) are increasingly becoming a preferred 
source of credit for MSMEs, particularly micro-sized enterprises, due to their ability 
to reach remote areas, make quicker lending decisions, provide prompt services, and 
specialise in niche segments. During Q1 of FY24, NBFCs accounted for 14% of MSME 
credit demand, witnessing the fastest growth at 39%. The time-series graph below 
shows that while private banks have a large share of originations and continue to grow, 
NBFCs are growing their share in small and medium segments


--- PAGE 94 ---
94
MSME Loan 
Disbursement/ 
Origination by 
Lender
Fig. 18
0%
0%
0%
10%
10%
10%
20%
20%
20%
30%
30%
30%
40%
80%
40%
50%
50%
50%
Jan - 20
Jan - 20
Jan - 20
Jan - 21
Jan - 21
Jan - 21
Jan - 22
Jan - 22
Jan - 22
Jan - 23
Jan - 23
Jan - 23
Micro
Small
Medium
PSB
Private
NBFC
Others

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
However, a major challenge for NBFCs lies in offering credit at competitive interest rates, 
which typically range between 15-25%, depending on the borrowing costs they face from 
banks. Assessing the creditworthiness of MSMEs also remains a time-intensive process, 
requiring significant effort to analyse cash flows and build accurate credit scores. Additionally, 
banks often lend to NBFCs based on collateral, further driving up borrowing costs and 
limiting their ability to offer affordable credit. The lack of access to lower-rate funding and 
inefficiencies in the on-lending process further restrict NBFCs' capacity to meet the MSME 
sector's credit needs effectively.
The 46th report of the Standing Committee on Finance (17th Lok Sabha), titled “Strengthening 
Credit Flows to the MSME Sector”, observed that SIDBI's loan portfolio in FY21 stood at only 
₹1.56 lakh crore, which was significantly smaller—around one-fourth—of NABARD's ₹6.03 
lakh crore portfolio during the same period. This highlighted the need for SIDBI to expand its 
balance sheet to better support the financial institutions serving MSMEs. To address this, the 
Committee recommended strengthening SIDBI’s equity base, noting that an enhanced capital 
base would substantially boost SIDBI’s ability to provide wholesale financing to NBFCs catering 
to the MSME sector.
While the Ministry of Finance (in the 68th report about “Action taken by the Government on 
the Observations/Recommendations contained in the Forty-Sixth Report (17th Lok Sabha) 
on the subject ‘Strengthening Credit Flows to the MSME Sector”) responded that SIDBI 
is currently well-capitalized to meet its projected growth, the Committee emphasised the 
importance of further scaling SIDBI’s role as the principal financial institution for MSMEs. 
Given the challenges NBFCs face in accessing wholesale financing and raising funds at 
competitive rates, the Committee suggested that SIDBI could play a pivotal role by investing 
in smaller NBFCs to improve their capacity and corporate governance, thereby transforming 
them into stronger financial intermediaries.
To further support the MSME sector, the Committee proposed 
several measures: loans from banks to NBFCs for on-lending to 
MSMEs should be classified as indirect finance to MSMEs under 
Priority Sector Lending, as was the case before 2011. Additionally, 
the introduction of credit insurance by IRDAI through insurance 
companies could help mitigate risk perceptions for NBFCs 
and MFIs, enabling greater credit flow to MSMEs, 
particularly micro-enterprises. These steps would ensure 
that SIDBI’s role becomes more impactful and aligned 
with the needs of the MSME 
sector.
This highlighted 
the need for 
SIDBI to expand 
its balance sheet 
to better support 
the financial 
institutions 
serving MSMEs


--- PAGE 96 ---
96
SOME TAXATION ISSUES OF MSMEs
The Finance Act 2023 introduced a new rule, Section 43B(h), which requires 
businesses to pay their MSME suppliers within 45 days to claim tax deductions. This 
has caused significant concern among MSMEs, as it can disrupt their cash flow and 
lead to potential financial losses since buyers (of MSMEs’ products) can reorient 
their sourcing and purchasing preferences to non-MSME sellers. Many industry 
bodies, such as CAIT and CMAI, have appealed to the  government to reconsider the 
implementation of this rule, citing its potential negative impact on the MSME sector.
MSMEs face complex GST compliance requirements, including filing multiple 
returns (e.g., TCS, ISD, and annual returns) across states. This demands significant 
administrative effort and technical expertise, which MSMEs often lack. Usually, it’s 
the proprietor himself managing accounting and book-keeping tasks. 
Issues relayed to Input Tax Credit: When payments 
extend payment terms beyond 180 days (sometimes 
due to specific terms in the agreement), the input 
tax credit can be reversed. This means working 
capital blockages for MSMEs and the additional 
burden of reclaiming ITC upon payment. 
B. Addressing skilling challenges faced by MSMEs
The data shows that a significant portion of the workforce is concentrated in Skill Level 1 (low-
skilled) and Skill Level 2 (semi-skilled) categories, while highly skilled workers (Skill Levels 3 and 
4) remain limited. At the same time, for example, there have been significant advancements 
in India’s Biotech Innovation Ecosystem. Over nine years, for example, BIRAC has facilitated 
the creation and support of 4,800 startups and entrepreneurs and helped establish 95 bio-
incubators across 21 states/UTs. This has led to the creation of 35000 high-skilled jobs. Such 
developments call for investments in STEM education, and initiatives like the Skill India Mission 
should be tailored to the requirements of a fast-evolving job market, emphasising innovation 
and technological advancements.
Analysis of PLFS data shows that a substantial proportion of the workforce aged 15 to 59 
lacks formal vocational or technical training. While the proportion has decreased from 91.9% 
in 2017-18 to 72.6% in 2022–23, it still indicates a significant gap in formal skill development 
for a substantial segment of the Indian workforce. Creating partnerships between industries, 
educational institutions, and the government can help design curriculum and training modules 
that equip workers with skills relevant to future job markets. Implementing shorter courses, 
online/hybrid training and on-site training options can accommodate the diverse needs of 
MSMEs.

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
C. Technological Development in MSMEs
i. Enhancing Supply Chains
Enhancing supply chain linkages for the technological development of MSMEs is critical to 
improving their efficiency, competitiveness, and global participation. Governments play a 
pivotal role in this process by fostering collaborative initiatives across sectors, strengthening 
supply chain integration, and addressing key impediments to growth. Here are several reasons 
why this is essential:
Efficient supply chains enable MSMEs to integrate into GVCs, facilitating their involvement 
in international trade. Despite progress, India’s GVC participation (40.3% of gross trade in 
2022) lags behind not only major economies like the USA (43.7%) and Japan (46.6%) but also 
regional competitors like South Korea (56.2%) and Malaysia (60%) as per Economic Survey 
2024. Enhancing supply chain linkages can help bridge this gap, fostering economic growth 
and global competitiveness. Supply chains act as critical drivers for increasing the Gross Value 
Addition (GVA) of MSMEs by streamlining operations and reducing inefficiencies. Investments 
in supply chain technology, such as electronic linkages in the textile industry, can lead to 
process innovation, better quality control, and improved product management, thus boosting 
GVA and operational efficiency. Pressure within supply chains significantly impacts prices, 
especially for essential commodities like food. By addressing bottlenecks and enhancing 
supply chain efficiency, governments can help stabilize food prices, a crucial factor in ensuring 
food and nutrition security. Complex supply chains influence competitive export pricing, 
even within domestic markets. By simplifying procedures, improving trade infrastructure, and 
facilitating trade measures, MSMEs can offer globally competitive pricing, enhancing their 
export potential. Targeted government initiatives can unlock sectoral potential. For instance, 
investments in electronic supply chain infrastructure in textiles and government support for 
MSMEs in food processing through trade fairs and export promotion programs can drive 
innovation, quality improvement, and market access. Agriculture and allied sectors, integral to 
India’s economy, face challenges like climate change and resource sustainability. 
Occupational standards tailored to MSME needs should be created and regularly updated to 
ensure relevance and quality. Further, boards or councils which continually review and update 
training curricula to keep pace with industry changes and technological advancements should 
be created. 
To upskill and train, affordable and more accessible cost-sharing models can be explored. 
These can also be explored by providing grants to micro-enterprises that can offset the costs 
of training and technology adoption initiatives. They can also include options for training 
existing and new employees.
The government in Andhra Pradesh recently proposed an important initiative: a Skill Census. 
Such an exercise can comprehensively assess current skill levels across the state’s regions and 
sectors. All states can undertake this activity. This will help map out the exact skills that are 
deficient and in line with industry demands at a granular level. 
The government 
in Andhra 
Pradesh recently 
proposed an 
important 
initiative: a Skill 
Census. 

--- PAGE 98 ---
98
Enhancing supply chain infrastructure in agriculture, horticulture, and food processing can 
help unlock employment potential, sustain food security, and support adaptation efforts in the 
face of geopolitical and technological threats to manufacturing and services.
ii. Enhance Risk Management through Digital and Insurance Solutions
iii. Integrating AI in MSMEs
Indian MSMEs must be introduced to affordable, digital risk management solutions that 
help businesses track supply chains, monitor inventory, and manage logistics in real time. 
Technologies such as sensor-based tracking for goods or automation tools for inventory 
management can reduce operational risks. It will require developing tailored insurance 
products that combine traditional risk transfer with innovative digital tools (e.g., IoT -based 
risk monitoring) for MSMEs to be encouraged to adopt insurance solutions that protect them 
against economic shocks, such as pandemics or natural disasters. For beverages and food-
related value chains in Malaysia and Thailand, insurance combined with sensor-based cargo 
tracking devices has proved to be an important and holistic resilience solution to reduce the 
risk of damage to property and goods in transit states a report about MSME resilience in 
Thailand and Malaysia by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). These solutions 
not only mitigate risks but also address them and help to build further customised solutions, 
especially for distribution partners or aggregators. Further, MSMEs must be educated on 
the importance of digital tools and insurance for business continuity and growth. Insurance 
providers and tech firms can partner to offer training and affordable packages to enhance 
MSMEs’ resilience.
Integrating Artificial Intelligence (AI) into MSMEs presents multiple challenges that hinder 
widespread adoption, as per a joint study by Nasscom and Meta . Many MSMEs struggle to 
understand and comply with India’s data protection laws. This lack of awareness makes it 
difficult for businesses to manage data responsibly and comply with legal requirements. Also, 
MSMEs need better guidance on complying with legal frameworks while integrating 
AI. Lack of clear understanding of the legal landscape can result in unintentional 
non-compliance. MSMEs should receive accessible, simplified guides and training 
programs on data protection 
laws. The government and 
industry bodies can create 
awareness campaigns 
and offer workshops 
to help 
businesses 


--- PAGE 99 ---
99
iv. Increase Institute for Collaborations (IFCs)
As defined by Porter and Emmons in (Institutions for Collaboration : Overview . Background 
note, January 2003), IFCs encompass both formal and informal actors that actively promote 
the establishment and growth of clusters among involved stakeholders.  IFCs serve as 
instrumental entities in cluster development, contributing significantly to product research 
and development (R&D). Their influence extends beyond product development, encompassing 
the enhancement of productivity, fostering innovation, and optimising processes through 
innovative methodologies. The proximity of IFCs to any cluster is paramount, as it substantially 
contributes to its overall productivity and innovative capacity.
For MSMEs, forging connections with IFCs proves particularly beneficial, providing them with 
opportunities to upgrade their technology. Given the inherent constraints of limited resources 
and capabilities faced by MSMEs, IFCs emerge as invaluable partners in undertaking essential 
research and innovation endeavours. In the Indian context, the Micro and Small Enterprises-
Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) has incorporated Common Facilitation Centres 
(CFCs). These CFCs are designed to furnish shared infrastructural facilities to MSMEs. 
However, a compelling need exists to elevate the sophistication of these CFCs to align them 
with the high standards set by IFCs. Strengthening IFCs demands a strategic approach 
involving membership consolidation and expansion.
understand how to safeguard data and build compliant operations. Governments and industry 
associations should provide targeted guidance, including mentorship programs and resources 
that demystify the legal aspects of AI adoption. A dedicated legal compliance resource centre 
can help MSMEs navigate the complexities of data protection and other AI-related regulations.
An important aspect is the lack of availability of expertise on AI with MSMEs. In the study, 74% 
of MSMEs acknowledge AI’s potential but lack the in-house expertise to identify and integrate 
suitable AI tools into their workflows. 72% of MSMEs reported difficulty accessing the training 
needed to upskill their workforce for AI implementation. The absence of trained staff makes 
understanding complex algorithms and data science methodologies difficult. A collaborative 
space for MSMEs with academic institutions, startups, and AI consultants can help to bridge 
the skills gap. Governments and private players should create affordable, accessible training 
platforms focused on AI and digital skills. Industry partnerships can help create training 
programs tailored to the specific needs of MSMEs, offering both online courses and hands-on 
workshops to build the AI expertise required for successful implementation.
59% of MSMEs face financial limitations that hinder their ability to invest in AI technologies, 
which include high costs of AI tools, compute infrastructure, and training. Additionally, 91% 
of MSMEs believe AI should be democratically available and affordable. For example, MSMEs 
could be provided financial support, such as subsidies, grants, or low-interest loans, to help 
them invest in AI. Public-private collaborations can offer affordable AI solutions, including 
cloud-based models that reduce upfront costs. Further, offering tax incentives or special 
funding programs for MSMEs adopting AI technologies can ease financial constraints.
IFCs serve as 
instrumental 
entities in cluster 
development, 
contributing 
significantly to 
product research 
and development 
(R&D). 

--- PAGE 100 ---
100
Some technological solutions to enhance credit flow of 
MSMEs under development:
GST SAHAY is a digital lending platform that aims to 
provide MSMEs with easy and quick access to credit. 
It leverages the power of technology and the vast 
amount of data generated by the Goods and Services 
Tax (GST) system to assess the creditworthiness of 
MSMEs. GST SAHAY aims to address the challenges 
MSMEs face in accessing credit, particularly those 
that lack traditional collateral.
GST SAHAY utilises the GST invoices generated by MSMEs as 
collateral to assess their creditworthiness. This means that MSMEs can access 
credit based on their business transactions rather than traditional collateral like 
property. The platform is entirely digital, making it easy for MSMEs to apply for and 
receive loans. The use of technology and the integration with the GSTN (Goods and 
Services Tax Network) allow for faster loan processing and disbursement. Integrating 
GSTN with the Account Aggregator (AA) framework is crucial in making GST SAHAY a 
reality. This integration will allow seamless access to financial data, making the credit 
assessment process even more efficient and transparent.
The Ministry of MSME is actively working to transform the UDYAM Portal into a 
comprehensive one-stop solution for MSMEs. This involves integrating the portal 
with other relevant platforms, collaborating with SIDBI to develop the Udyam Assist 
Platform, and utilizing the Digilocker platform for secure document storage.
The Ministry launched the Udyam Assist Portal (UAP) on January 11, 2023, to further 
extend support to the informal sector. This portal aims to facilitate the onboarding 
of Informal Micro Enterprises (IMEs), enabling them to access the benefits of 
Priority Sector Lending. The UAP empowers IMEs to tap 
into various financial and non-financial support schemes 
by simplifying the registration process and providing a 
digital platform.
GST SAHAY App
UDYAM Portal and Udyam Assist Portal (UAP)
Source: 68th report of Standing Committee on Finance (2023-24) “Action taken 
by the Government on the Observations/Recommendations contained in the 
Forty-Sixth Report (17th Lok Sabha) on the subject ‘Strengthening Credit Flows to 
the MSME Sector”.
To achieve this, initiatives should foster collaboration and knowledge networks among 
universities, research institutes, and private entities. Such collaborative efforts will facilitate 
seamless R&D and knowledge exchange, thereby enhancing the overall capabilities of IFCs 
and, consequently, the clusters they support. Furthermore, it is imperative to establish forums 
for the timely sharing of industry information. A thorough review of the property rights 
framework is essential to mitigate the risks associated with companies divulging trade details 
through IFCs to other industry players.

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
Learnings from States’ 
MSME policies
2.
Examining the landscape of MSME policies across various states and union territories reveals 
the existence of schemes and incentives to support them. However, the mere existence of 
these policies falls short of ensuring their efficacy. A substantial challenge arises from the lack 
of awareness among MSMEs regarding these policies, impeding their macro-level utilisation. 
Furthermore, the prevailing policies often inadequately address the substantial challenges 
faced by MSMEs, primarily stemming from the omission of various stakeholders during the 
policy formulation process. To augment the formulation of effective policies, policymakers 
must prioritise regular consultations with stakeholders at all levels.
At the individual level, MSMEs confront disproportionate challenges in navigating and deriving 
benefits from available schemes. Inherent limitations in financial, technical, and administrative 
capabilities impede their access to opportunities, preparation of tender documents, and 
fulfilment of contractual obligations. Financial constraints frequently hinder their participation 
in schemes that necessitate substantial investments. 
The response of state governments to these challenges has been less than comprehensive. 
Existing policies lack the requisite depth to effectively target individual-level challenges. 
State governments ought to identify and prioritise specific issues, concurrently working 
to enhance awareness about existing schemes. The current piecemeal approach in policy 
design and implementation underscores the urgent need for a more cohesive, strategic, and 
inclusive approach to fortify businesses in the MSME sector. This necessitates addressing 
individual-level challenges and ensuring the effective implementation and widespread 
dissemination of these schemes.
Access to Finance
Access to finance remains a significant challenge for MSMEs in India, despite efforts by state 
governments to address this issue. Many states have introduced capital-intensive subsidies to 
reduce the financial burden of establishing or expanding businesses. While such policies are 
helpful, they often focus solely on the initial stages of an enterprise's life cycle, overlooking 
the unique financial needs of MSMEs at later stages. States like Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and 
Manipur have introduced interest subsidy schemes for both term loans and working capital 
requirements. However, these subsidies often come with minimum turnover requirements, 
excluding micro-enterprises from benefiting. To address this, policies must focus on reducing 
eligibility barriers and catering to the financing needs of MSMEs throughout their lifecycle.
Additionally, there is a lack of support for financing instruments beyond traditional bank 
credit. While states like Haryana, Gujarat, Odisha, and Himachal Pradesh have incentivised 
SME listings on stock exchanges such as the BSE SME platform and NSE EMERGE, this option 
primarily benefits high-end SMEs with strong financial knowledge and records. Smaller firms, 
which often lack bookkeeping expertise and financial literacy, are left out. To bridge this gap, 
state policymakers need to explore alternative financing options, such as cash-based lending, 
equity financing, factoring, leasing, and venture capital, while ensuring smaller MSMEs receive 
targeted support.

--- PAGE 102 ---
102
Insurance coverage is another neglected area. Except Manipur, which offers subsidies on 
insurance premiums for MSMEs, most states lack structured frameworks to help businesses 
safeguard against unforeseen risks and losses. Moreover, no state-level initiatives currently 
focus on assessing financial literacy or providing interventions to enhance it, leaving MSMEs 
ill-prepared to navigate complex financial systems. Comprehensive and inclusive policies are 
essential to address these gaps and ensure financial stability for MSMEs nationwide.
Access to Markets
MSMEs in India face significant challenges in accessing markets due to limited production 
capacity, lack of branding, and a focus on serving only local markets. While the public 
procurement policy aims to support micro and small enterprises (MSEs) by offering 
competitive pricing opportunities, medium enterprises remain excluded, disincentivising 
growth. 
Furthermore, most state governments have not taken sufficient steps to enhance the 
competitiveness of MSME products and services in local or international markets. Only a few 
states, such as Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, and Kerala, have 
implemented export incentives, highlighting a critical gap in fostering export competitiveness. 
These states also support MSMEs with initiatives like quality certifications, market research, 
and buyer-seller meetups. 
At the same time, Bihar and Haryana provide additional benefits such as freight 
reimbursements and e-commerce platforms like “Made in Haryana.” However, most states 
lack proactive measures, leaving MSMEs ill-equipped to compete globally. To address this, 
coordinated state-level efforts are needed to empower MSMEs with targeted regulatory, 
administrative, and policy interventions, enabling them to access global markets effectively. 
A study by J-PAL on Indonesia suggested that the rapid growth of e-commerce and logistics 
services is crucial for developing micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in developing 
countries. Investment in transport infrastructure can lead to better business outcomes while 
also promoting economic growth and improving household welfare.
Moreover, MSMEs should focus on developing innovative products, particularly in high-tech 
sectors such as semiconductors and biotechnology, with state-level initiatives tailored to 
districts that provide an enabling environment for integration into global value chains.
MSMEs tend to allocate a small subset of their investments in research, design, and product 
development. Their cooperation within the value chain is often driven by dependence on 
larger market players, leaving most SMEs with little freedom to choose the markets in which 
they operate. 
MSMEs tend to 
allocate a small 
subset of their 
investments 
in research, 
design, and 
product 
development.

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
 » Among the SMEs in textile manufacturing, collaboration with Indian and international 
design schools, investment in new product technologies, and partnership with high-end 
retail outlets need to be promoted.
 » For chemical product sector SMEs, state governments should focus on expanding the talent 
pool of engineers and researchers by increasing domestic and international collaboration 
with students.
Additionally, providing training and workshops on modern marketing techniques, including 
digital marketing, can help MSMEs diversify into by-products and develop niche markets 
to boost their competitiveness. In the chemical products sector, state governments can 
focus on strengthening the marketing capabilities of SMEs to help them move downstream 
in the value chain. This can be achieved by creating collaborative platforms that connect 
SMEs with specialised marketing agencies or consultants in the chemical industry, enabling 
them to refine marketing strategies, target audiences effectively, and enhance their overall 
competitiveness. By addressing these sector-specific needs, state governments can 
significantly contribute to the growth and sustainability of MSMEs.


--- PAGE 104 ---
104
Access to technology and infrastructure 
Access to technology and infrastructure remains a critical challenge for MSMEs, despite 
initiatives like the National Credit Linked Capital Subsidy for Technology Upgradation (CLCS-
TU) and state-level schemes such as Kerala’s Industry Varsity Linkages, Haryana’s Credit Linked 
Advanced Technology Adoption scheme, and subsidies for technology purchases in Odisha 
and Punjab. While these programs aim to enhance technological adoption, their reach is often 
limited to medium and high-earning small enterprises, focusing on advanced technologies 
like automation, IT systems, and IP registration. Unfortunately, the vast majority of micro-
enterprises—forming the backbone of the MSME sector—remain excluded as these schemes 
fail to address their basic technological needs, making scalability a persistent issue. 
India’s States must develop sector-specific MSME policies to support micro and small-
sized firms by upgrading their outdated technologies, enhancing productive capacity, 
and ensuring equitable benefits to ensure coordinated and integrated development at the 
regional level.
For example, under the 14th 5-year plan (2021-25), China has aimed to accelerate the digital 
transformation of its enterprises by constructing network infrastructure, modern industrial 
platform systems and intelligent workshops/smart factories within the subsectors of its textile 
industry.
Efforts to provide quality infrastructure through industrial parks with MSME-specific 
reservations have shown promise, but high rental costs often make them inaccessible to 
smaller firms. While the Central government’s Common Facility Centers are a positive step, 
states must establish their own infrastructure to support micro-enterprises through 
co-working spaces and shared facilities tailored to their unique requirements. Moreover, 
addressing operational inefficiencies in existing industrial parks, as highlighted in CAG reports 
in the previous section, is crucial before expanding new facilities.
Skill Development
MSMEs in India face significant challenges in accessing capacity-building opportunities due 
to financial illiteracy, operational skill gaps, and limited awareness of government schemes. 
Despite the critical need for skill development, only eight states—such as Andhra Pradesh, 
Bihar, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, and Rajasthan—currently provide 
partial subsidies for employment training. However, these initiatives fall short of addressing 
the dynamic skill requirements of MSMEs, as the training curricula are often outdated and 
misaligned with the sector’s evolving needs. Own Account Enterprises (OAEs) and nano-
enterprises face additional hurdles, including high opportunity costs associated with lengthy 
training programs that divert focus from daily operations. To address these challenges, 
tailor-made policies are needed to ensure last-mile connectivity and extend training benefits 
to micro-enterprises, particularly in rural India. These programs must be accessible, free of 
charge, and specifically designed to meet MSMEs’ unique skill and technology needs, enabling 
their sustained growth and success in diverse settings.
To address these 
challenges, 
tailor-made 
policies are 
needed to 
ensure last-mile 
connectivity 
and extend 
training benefits 
to micro-
enterprises, 
particularly in 
rural India.

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
Policy formulation, feedback and communication
A significant challenge faced by state-level policies in the country is the absence of consistent 
monitoring and evaluation. Despite the existence of numerous policies, the issues plaguing 
the MSME sector persist. A primary reason for this is the lack of awareness among potential 
beneficiaries regarding these policies. 
Increased awareness is critical to ensuring that the schemes introduced for the sector 
reach and benefit the intended recipients. Additionally, the introduction of policies alone 
is insufficient; their performance needs continuous evaluation by states to gauge their 
effectiveness in achieving objectives. The lack of evaluation results in a dearth of informative 
evidence, hindering independent research and the formulation of key recommendations for 
policy improvement. Before considering augmenting or altering existing policies, a thorough 
evaluation of their implementation and performance through timely government-conducted 
surveys is imperative. 
The Economic Survey 2024 recommended upgrading statistics on industry to aid policy 
making. It stated that state-level industrial production and employment indices, which 
measure and communicate the changes in India’s manufacturing setup, are needed to 
understand regional patterns. The economic survey also recommended polishing information 
about cross disbursement of bank credit industry industry-wise monthly gross financial 
flows through domestic and external equity and debt routes and other financing sources. 
Furthermore, making the evidence from these assessments public would facilitate further 
research in the field.
Another issue is the inadequate interaction between stakeholders and policymakers in 
MSMEs. The lack of engagement has led to policymakers overlooking grassroots challenges 
faced by enterprises, such as Owner-Operated Enterprises (OAEs) and women-owned 
enterprises. These enterprises face unique challenges that differ from capital- and technology-
intensive enterprises. Many policies focus on technology upgrading, neglecting OAEs and 
women-led enterprises that may not be as technology-intensive. To identify and address such 
issues more effectively in future policy formulation, increased participation of stakeholders, 
including representatives and lobbyists of MSMEs, is crucial. Establishing MSME-specific 
forums could serve as a foundational step for enhanced participation and improved policy 
formulation in the sector.
Uninterrupted power supply is another pressing issue. States have focused on making power 
affordable through connection charge reimbursements (e.g., Gujarat) and per-unit subsidies 
(e.g., Madhya Pradesh). Still, affordability alone does not resolve the problem of irregular 
supply. MSMEs, especially micro-enterprises, cannot afford backup power solutions like 
generators, making power outages a significant obstacle to their efficiency and productivity. 
Governments could address this by introducing subsidies or tax credits for renewable energy 
solutions, such as solar panels, or by developing industrial clusters with shared power facilities 
and resources. Collaborative interventions, such as partnerships with IFC for sector-specific 
solutions, would also help bridge infrastructure gaps and ensure sustainable growth for 
MSMEs.

--- PAGE 106 ---
106
The Union Budget presented in July 2024, and the Economic Survey 2024 
highlighted various struggles of MSMEs and listed several specific solutions. 
These were: 
A. MSMEs face challenges in securing affordable and timely funding due to lack of collateral, credit history, 
high interest rates, complex documentation, and lengthy processing times, leading to an estimated credit 
gap of ₹20-25 lakh crore. To address this, the Economic Survey 2024 recommends strengthening support 
systems to make MSME projects more attractive to banks and other financiers. This could be done by 
mobilizing private capital through innovative financing instruments like venture capital and impact investing. 
The Union Budget announced Capital Investments for Technological Upgradation scheme. The new credit 
guarantee scheme has been introduced to support machinery and equipment purchases without requiring 
collateral or third-party guarantees:
B. Extensive regulations and compliance requirements, particularly from state governments, limit MSME 
growth and job creation. Threshold-based incentives often discourage expansion, as businesses aim to stay 
within limits. The Economic Survey suggests that states should simplify regulations and reduce compliance 
burdens to allow MSMEs to focus on growth. This can be achieved by gradually easing compliance through 
single-window clearance, digitising processes, and providing tools to help MSMEs manage these efficiently. 
    The Union Budget 2024 announced a new credit assessment model to tackle informality. In this model, 
Public sector banks will now develop in-house capabilities to assess MSMEs using a new model based on 
their digital footprint. 
C. The Economic Survey 2024 highlighted that most MSMEs, especially in sectors 
like textiles and apparel, operate on a small scale, limiting efficiency and 
economies of scale. Beyond closing the credit gap, the focus should be on 
deregulating the MSME sector, enhancing physical and digital connectivity, 
and developing an export strategy to expand market reach. Modernizing 
industrial statistics in India is crucial for better policymaking. This includes 
updating the index of industrial production, creating state-level indices, 
and gathering data on MSME production and employment, enabling more 
targeted support for industrial growth. In this regard, the Union Budget 
announced the following schemes: 
 » This scheme allows businesses to secure term loans for capital investments more easily. 
 » A dedicated self-financing guarantee fund will pool credit risks, offering coverage of up to ₹100 crore per 
applicant, enabling access to larger loan amounts. 
 » Borrowers must pay an upfront guarantee fee and an annual fee based on the reduced loan balance.
 » This approach aims to be more comprehensive than traditional methods relying solely on assets or turnover 
and will also include MSMEs lacking formal accounting systems. 
 » This scheme takes on the challenges of inadequate access to finance that small firms face due to a lack of 
financial information and non-formal business practices. 

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
 » The limit of Mudra loans under the ‘Tarun’ category is to be increased from Rs.20 lakh to Rs.10 lakh for 
those who have successfully repaid previous loans. 
 » New mechanism for banks and financial institutions to MSMEs during their stressed period. 
 » The turnover threshold for buyers for mandatory onboarding on the TReDS platform will be reduced from 
500 crore to 250 crore. 
 » SIDBI will open new branches to expand its reach to serve all major MSME clusters within 3 years and 
provide direct credit to them. With the opening of 24 such branches this year, the service coverage will 
expand to 168 out of 242 major clusters.
 » Financial support to set up 50 multi-product food irradiation units in the MSME sector. 
 » E-Commerce Export Hubs will be set up under public-private partnership (PPP) mode for MSMEs and 
traditional artisans to sell their products in international markets.
1. Enhancing Institutional Support and Financial Assistance to Boost MSME Cash Flow: 
2. MSME Units for Food Irradiation, Quality & Safety Testing:
Learnings from Cluster-
level Analysis 
3.
Rethinking clusters for MSME development
India’s cluster policy, established in 1987, is rooted in the amalgamation of collective efficiency 
and flexible specialisation, diverging significantly from strategies employed by developed 
nations following Michael E. Porter’s cluster approach. Notable examples include the United 
States and the European Union, which utilise cluster mapping initiatives to inform policy 
decisions and promote cross-border collaboration.
For instance, the United States, through the Cluster Mapping Initiative led by the Harvard 
Business School Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness, employs data and insights to 
shape economic development strategies at various governance levels. Similarly, the European 
Union, over the past thirty years, has been promoting cluster mapping through initiatives like 
the European Cluster Observatory (ECO) and the European Cluster Collaboration Platform 
(ECCP). ECO collects and disseminates data, while ECCP fosters cross-border collaboration 
among businesses, research institutions, and clusters, particularly focusing on small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).

--- PAGE 108 ---
108
In the Indian context, clusters cater to diverse markets, spanning local, regional, national, 
and international levels. However, the success of these clusters should not be solely gauged 
by international market links. Instead, there should be a shift towards emphasising product 
diversification and enhancing local technological capabilities. While export-oriented strategies 
are crucial, acknowledging the strong presence of a large, segmented domestic market is 
essential—a dimension sometimes overlooked in discussions on value chain analyses.
To enhance the cluster development program for micro and small enterprises in India, 
revisiting the definition of clusters is imperative. Regional policymakers can leverage cluster 
policies as a pragmatic and convenient place-based organising principle, demonstrating 
political commitment, pursuing an innovation policy mix, efficiently mobilising public 
resources, and prioritising strategic regional sectors. Personalised services to SMEs, 
addressing regional research and innovation weaknesses, should be offered. These services 
can assess and review the innovation capabilities of private companies, providing roadmaps 
for improvement. Additionally, clusters can be pivotal in promoting university-industry 
collaboration, essential for fostering innovation, knowledge transfer, and strengthening 
regional competitiveness. Clusters should actively encourage broader collaboration among 
public and private research and technology organizations, serving as catalysts for collaborative 
innovation activities between universities and industries.
Cluster specific Recommendations
A dominance of upstream activities is observed in almost all clusters. This may suggest 
reliance on raw material processing and intermediate production stages rather than focusing 
on higher-value end products, which can challenge enterprise competitiveness. 
Cluster Recommendations  Regions to focus on 
Textile 
Manufacturing 
and Apparel
 » SMEs in Textile Manufacturing should focus on high-
value product design, local branding, customisation, 
integrated supply chain services, and higher product 
quality. Overall, India’s GVC integration should move 
toward higher value-generating downstream activities 
such as readymade garments (or clothing or apparel.
 » To achieve these objectives without increasing costs, 
they should collaborate with overseas and Indian 
design schools, invest in new product technology, 
partner with high-end retail outlets, link supply chains 
electronically, and invest in capital equipment and local 
training institutions for process innovation, product 
management, and quality control.
 » The Economic Survey 2024 highlighted technological 
obsolescence as a significant contributor to problems 
in the textile and apparel industry. This necessitates 
investment in technology upgradation, especially in 
weaving and processing segments.
 » Improving the brand image of Indian apparel and 
garments is needed to increase the unit value 
realisation (UVR).
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in
 » Textile manufacturing in Surat, Panipat, 
Sant Ravidas Nagar, Ludhiana, Varanasi, 
Imphal East, Tiruppur, Namakkal, and 
Erode.
 » Apparel manufacturing in Tiruppur, 
Ludhiana, Haulakandi, Bangalore, Erode, 
Supaul, Coimbatore, Kaushambi, Gautam 
Buddha Nagar and Sant Ravidas Nagar
To ensure economies of scale happen, 
districts around these regions should 
become more competitive.

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
Food Processing 
Cluster 
 » Agri-food policy actively directed at developing a link 
between production and processing is the need of 
the hour. For example, GoI efforts to put Millet Indian 
products on the global map
 » Maximise value added throughout the supply chain by 
improving current processes and through innovation. 
For Example: Combining goods-in-transit insurance 
with sensor-based cargo tracking devices can help 
reduce damage to property and goods in transit
 » Stagnant market share in food products; Need to 
diversify into other by-products -and develop other 
niche markets.
 » At the state level, branding guidance for agricultural 
products for MSME projects and food cluster formation 
is needed.
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in:
 » Food Processing and Manufacturing 
in Tinsukia, Dakshin. Bastar Dantewada, 
Kiphire, Mahoba
 » Local Food and Beverage Processing 
and Distribution This cluster is present 
in most of the districts of India.
It must be noted that regional 
specialisation is almost low and stagnant, 
as more than 60 % of districts have lower 
LQ, which lies between 2 and 0. Since 
it’s a traded cluster and employs most of 
the MSME sector, immediate steps are 
required to improve the productivity of this 
cluster across India.
Strengthening efforts in the northeastern 
and eastern belts of India are urgently 
needed. Due to the uniqueness and 
diversity of the food products, these belts 
demonstrate huge potential for integration 
in GVCs.
Chemical Cluster  » For SMEs involved in chemical products, the integrated 
ecosystem is crucial, but the biggest challenge is 
attracting and retaining skilled workers.
 » State governments should focus on expanding the 
pool of engineers and researchers through increased 
collaboration domestically and international students.
 » Due to their lower bargaining power, SMEs face higher 
barriers to regulatory and compliance efforts regarding 
products. To further minimise risk, compliance and 
regulatory efforts need to be streamlined.
 » Moreover, building stronger marketing capabilities is 
imperative to facilitate progress downstream in the 
value chain.
 » Investments in Industry 4.0, such as predictive 
maintenance, data analytics, and supply chain 
optimisation tools, can enhance productivity and 
reduce costs
 » Reducing dependence on imported raw materials, 
particularly from China, can be crucial for MSMEs. 
Exploring alternative domestic suppliers or developing 
more resilient supply chains can lower input costs.
The analysis indicates regional 
specialisation in:
 » Upstream Chemical Products in 
Bharuch, Gwalior, Gandhinagar, Medak, 
Nainital, Valsad, Palamu, Raigarh and 
Uttara Kannada, Samba, Palwal and 
Ujjain 
 » Downstream Chemical Products in 
Virudhunagar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Prayagraj, Bharuch, Karaikal, Sagar and 
Thoothukkudi
More focus must be placed on targeting 
MSMEs and strengthening their 
dominance in both sub-clusters.

--- PAGE 110 ---
110
Automotive 
Cluster 
 » Investment in Intangible Assets
MSMEs in the automotive cluster prioritize tangible 
assets over intangible ones like research and 
development (R&D), design, and innovation. This limits 
their ability to develop unique products and compete 
globally in a rapidly evolving automotive sector. 
This requires a shift in focus towards R&D, product 
development, and innovation through tax incentives 
and grants. It also necessitates establishing dedicated 
innovation hubs and incubation centers to assist MSMEs 
in adopting advanced technologies and fostering a 
culture of creativity.
 » Dependence on Larger Market Players
MSMEs often operate as suppliers or subcontractors in 
the value chain, with limited freedom to explore markets 
independently. This dependence restricts their growth 
and bargaining power.
Promote cooperative frameworks within the value chain 
to ensure knowledge sharing and skill development. 
Create platforms that connect MSMEs directly to global 
markets, enabling them to expand their operations 
beyond a dependent role.
 » Foster “Design and Innovation” Culture
Support MSMEs to transition into design-focused 
enterprises by providing training programs, incubation 
centres, and financial assistance for innovation projects
The analysis indicates regional 
specialization in automotive clusters such 
as Gurgaon, Saraikela-Kharsawan, Rewari, 
Udham Singh Nagar, Faridabad, and Pune, 
showcasing higher Location Quotient.

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
Key Takeaways
Access to Finance to fund MSME growth 
 » While MSMEs have gained better access to loans, a significant credit gap still exists in 
the sector. To address this issue, recommendations include reforming the CGTMSE by 
enhancing regulatory oversight and further reducing risk premiums for borrowers seeking 
CGTMSE funding.
 » Given their success in providing credit to MSMEs, especially in remote areas, NBFCs need to 
scale up their operations. A crucial step in this process is for the SIDBI to play a significant 
role by providing funding to help NBFCs improve their capacity and governance structures.
 » At the state level, lowering eligibility barriers for schemes that offer subsidies for capital 
and interest on loans will better address the financing needs of MSMEs throughout their 
lifecycle.
Skilling and Manpower Growth
 » The manpower needs of MSMEs in India demand significant investments in STEM 
education. To meet the requirements of a rapidly evolving job market, training programs 
must be aligned with current industry needs and provide last-mile connectivity, particularly 
for micro-enterprises located in rural areas.
 » Additionally, it is crucial to address the existing skills gap by reforming formal vocational 
education and technical training. There should be a focus on improving financial literacy and 
operational skills to effectively bridge these gaps.
 » To expand and enhance existing training initiatives, more states should offer partial 
subsidies for employment training. It is important to ensure that training curricula are 
regularly updated and relevant to the changing needs of the MSME sector.
 » Moreover, skill development initiatives must be made easily accessible, especially for MSMEs 
that face challenges due to their location or size. These initiatives should be designed to be 
practical and immediately applicable to daily operations.
Technological Development and Innovation
 » Indian MSMEs need to strengthen supply chain linkages with additional requirements of 
affordable digital risk management solutions to track supply chains, monitor inventory, and 
manage logistics in real time. 

--- PAGE 112 ---
112
Enhance the role and effectiveness of 
the Institute for Collaborations (IFCs)
Enhancing Access to Markets, a better 
Supply Chain Management to Enhance 
the Quality of Products and Export 
Competitiveness 
 » The role and effectiveness of IFCs must be enhanced to support cluster development, 
particularly for MSMEs, by fostering research, innovation, and technology upgrades. This 
involves building knowledge networks among universities, research institutes, and private 
entities to expand IFC memberships, establishing forums for sharing industry information to 
streamline R&D and reviewing property rights frameworks to mitigate risks in sharing trade 
details. 
 » Upgrading Common Facilitation Centres (CFCs) under the MSE-CDP to meet IFC standards 
will bolster their impact. Strengthened IFCs can drive productivity, innovation, and 
competitiveness within the MSME sector, significantly contributing to its growth.
 » Implement export incentives and enhance digital and e-commerce platforms, similar to 
initiatives in states like Haryana, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. Support measures 
should include quality certifications, market research, and buyer-seller meetups. 
 » There is a need for tailored insurance products that combine traditional risk transfer 
methods with digital tools to enhance the resilience of MSMEs. As AI becomes increasingly 
indispensable in business processes, it is essential to create awareness campaigns and 
offer workshops. Accessible training platforms and collaborative environments should be 
established for exchanging ideas and learning. Additionally, subsidies, grants, and low-
interest loans can help MSMEs invest in AI technologies.
 » Tailored policies are necessary to support the technological upgrading of micro and small 
enterprises, addressing their basic technology needs and enhancing their productive 
capacity. Furthermore, states should develop MSME-specific infrastructure, such as 
co-working spaces, industrial parks, and shared facilities. These initiatives should be 
complemented by policies that make rental costs more affordable for smaller firms to help 
micro-enterprises access quality infrastructure.
 » Technology upgrades are needed to overcome technological obsolescence, especially 
in weaving and processing segments in textile manufacturing and apparel clusters. 
Investments in Industry 4.0 are essential for chemical clusters.

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Stakeholder 
engagement
 » There is a critical need to raise awareness among potential beneficiaries about existing 
policies and schemes for MSMEs to ensure they reach the intended recipients. State 
governments must enhance outreach and communication to ensure policies are accessible 
and understood by MSMEs. Regular surveys and assessments to monitor the performance 
of MSME policies provide a basis for evidence-based improvements.
 » Policymakers need to engage more effectively with MSME stakeholders, including 
representatives of Owner-Operated Enterprises (OAEs) and women-owned enterprises, 
which face unique challenges that are often overlooked.
 » MSMEs in informal sectors also need to be captured in the government/public datasets. 
Analysing this data using statistical methods will help derive insights and identify areas for 
improvement towards reducing informality in the MSME sector
 » Additionally, focus on high-tech sectors such as semiconductors and biotechnology. 
Establish district-level initiatives that help integrate micro, small, and medium enterprises 
(MSMEs) into global value chains.
 » Among the SMEs in textile manufacturing, collaboration with Indian and international design 
schools, investment in new product technologies, and partnership with high-end retail 
outlets need to be promoted. State governments should focus on expanding the talent pool 
of engineers and researchers for chemical product sector SMEs by increasing domestic 
and international collaboration with students. They also need to support strengthening the 
marketing capabilities of SMEs to advance downstream in the value chain and enhance 
their competitiveness. Reducing dependence on imported raw materials can promote the 
segment’s sustainable growth. 
 » The state government should invest in electronic supply chain linkage for SMEs in textile 
manufacturing. This would involve investing in capital equipment and local training 
institutions to foster process innovation, product management, and quality control.
 » In Food processing, state governments can help the MSMEs by supporting international 
trade fairs, exhibitions, export promotion programs, training and workshops on marketing 
techniques and digital marketing geared towards diversifying into by-products and 
developing niche markets.

--- PAGE 114 ---
114
Conclusion
The analysis of the MSME landscape in India faces several challenges stemming from the 
limitations of the available data. One notable concern is the limited sample size of the dataset, 
which may compromise its representativeness in the broader MSME sector. The inclusion bias 
towards firms adhering to standardised bookkeeping practices raises questions about the 
accuracy of assessing the value added by diverse enterprises, particularly micro-enterprises 
that may not follow such practices.
Additionally, the dataset is plagued by a significant number of missing values, posing a 
challenge to the reliability and comprehensiveness of the analysis. These gaps in crucial 
indicators can affect the accuracy of value-added calculations, emphasising the need for 
cautious interpretation of findings. Moreover, the methodological variations in the data 
collection employed by the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE) introduce 
another layer of complexity. The proprietary nature of this methodology may deviate from 
national and international standards, requiring careful consideration in interpreting analysis 
results.
To address the limitations mentioned, in the study we have used Michael Porter’s approach 
to understand SME cluster development. We used PLFS (Periodic Labour Force Survey) data, 
underscoring the rationale for this inclusion. Given the scarcity of regular data specific to 
MSMEs, we advocate for utilising available sources like PLFS data as an interim measure. 
In our opinion, until a comprehensive and regularly updated dataset becomes available, 
policymakers and researchers should give due consideration to this data, particularly for 
its potential in understanding cluster-led developments in India. The PLFS data facilitates a 
focus on state and district-specific requirements, providing valuable insights that can aid in 
formulating targeted strategies for the growth and development of the MSME sector. This 
approach acknowledges the current data constraints while emphasising the importance of 
leveraging existing resources to inform more effective policy decisions and research initiatives.
The broader issue of insufficient data on Indian MSMEs, particularly concerning employment 
trends, export contribution, and GVC integration, further compounds the challenges. The 
lack of robust data impedes effective study of these factors, posing a substantial hurdle for 
policymakers seeking to formulate strategies for the MSME sector. While the UDYAM database 
stands as the sole regularly updated source, its limitations in capturing detailed data on 
economic activity for employment, exports, and productivity restrict its utility. Furthermore, 
the existing databases, including UDYAM and Prowess, fall short in providing comprehensive 
insights into value addition, exports, and GVC integration, highlighting the necessity for their 
enhancement.
Addressing these limitations is crucial for guiding an urgent and comprehensive examination 
of the MSME sector. Specifically, improvements in the functionality of the UDYAM portal, 
such as incorporating cluster-specific data and addressing the absence of NIC-level data 
categorised by states, are essential steps. This enhancement is pivotal in establishing a 
foundation for more informed policy decisions and fostering the competitiveness of MSMEs in 
India.

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
State level MSME policy
State Link Focus MSME or 
Industrial
Year
Recently Updated
Andhra Pradesh MSME POLICY 2015-2020 Micro and 
Small
MSME 2015-2020
Arunachal Pradesh Industrial and Investment Policy 2020 Industrial 2020
Assam The Assam MSME (Facilitation of Establishment and 
Operation) Act, 2020
Micro and 
Small
2020
Bihar Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy (Textile & 
Leather Policy), 2022
Industrial 2022
Chhattisgarh MSME POLICY – CHHATTISGARH STATE (2019-24) Micro and 
Small
2019-24
Goa Compendium of MSME Policy and Incentive Schemes of Goa 2022
Gujarat Gujarat Industry Policy 2020 Industry 2020
Haryana Haryana MSME Policy 2019 Micro and 
Small
2019
Himachal Pradesh The Himachal Pradesh Industrial Investment Policy, 2019 Industry 2019
Jharkhand Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021 Industry 2021
Karnataka Government of Karnataka INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2020-2025 Industry 2020-25
Madhya Pradesh MP MSME Development Policy, 2021 Micro and 
Small
2021
Meghalaya Meghalaya Procurement Preference Policy for Micro and 
Small Industries
Micro and 
Small
2021
Odisha Odisha-MSME-Policy-2022 Micro and 
Small
2022
Punjab Punjab Industrial and Business Development Policy 2022 Industrial 2022
Sikkim Sikkim Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Policy, 2022 Micro and 
Small
2022
Tamil Nadu Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Policy - 2021 Micro and 
Small
2021
Tripura lntroduction of Trlpura Industrlal Investment' Promotion 
Incentive Scheme (TIIPISI. 2022
Industrial 2022
Uttar Pradesh UTTAR PRADESH MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM 
ENTERPRISES PROMOTION POLICY - 2022
Micro and 
Small
2022
Not updated recently
Kerala MSME Schemes for Kerala State
Maharashtra The Industrial Policy of Maharashtra Industrial
Rajasthan Rajasthan MSME Policy 2015 MSME 2015
Uttarakhand Uttarakhand Policies & Incentives MSME
West Bengal MSME Policy 2013-18 MSME MSME
No policy document
Manipur
Nagaland
Telangana

--- PAGE 116 ---
116
Bibliography
 » Daño-Luna, Maribel, T. C., & Francisco, J. P. (2018). Drivers of Philippine SME Competitiveness: Results of the 2018 SME Survey. AIM 
Rizalino S. Navarro Policy Center for Competitiveness.
 » Deniz, M. S. (2013). Micro-economy competitiveness: a research on manufacturing firms operating in TRB1 region. Procedia-Social 
and Behavioral, 75.
 » Hautz, J. M. (2014). Macro-competitive context and diversification: The impact of Macroeconomic growth and foreign competition. 
Long Range Planning, 47(6).
 » Chobanyan, A., & Laurence, L. (2006). The competitive advantages of nations Applying the "Diamond" model to Armenia. 
International Journal of Emerging, 1(2), 147-164. doi:10.1108/17468800610658316
 » Buckley, P. C. (1988). Measures of international competitiveness: A critical survey. Journal of Marketing Management, 4(2), 174–200.
 » Porter, M. E. (2002). Competitveness and Stages of Economic Development: Executive Summary.
 » Petrakis, P. K. (2015). Innovation and competitiveness: culture as a long term strategic instrument during the European great 
recession. Journal of Business Research, 68(7), 1436-1438.
 » Uzor, O. O. (n.d.). African small and medium enterprises and the challenges in global value chains: The case of Nigerian garment 
enterprises. In Multinational Corporations and Local Firms in Emerging Economies. Amsterdam University Press.
 » Zhijie, G., Hong, J., & Guogang, J. (2019). International competitiveness of Chinese textile and clothing industry – a diamond model 
approach. Journal of Chinese Economic and Foreign Trade Studies, 12(1). doi:10.1108/JCEFTS-01-2018-0003
 » Xu, J. (2018). Analysis on the Tourism Competitiveness of Five Central Asian Countries Based on Diamond Model. Advances in Social 
Science, Education and Humanities Research, 286.
 » Samarasinghe, N., Ariadurai, S., & Perera, M. E. (2015). Facing the Future Challenges of the Sri Lankan Apparel Industry: An Approach 
based on Porter’s Diamond Model for the Competitive Advantage of Nations. Journal of Engineering and Technology of the Open 
University of Sri Lanka, 3(1).
 » Abdallah, R., Barry, C., Beal, M., Said, A., & Vartanov, S. (2012). The Textile Cluster in Egypt. Microeconomics of Competitiveness.
 » Trivikram, A., Bhalla, S., Fraser, J., & Nicholson, K. (2011, May 6). TIRPUR KNITWEAR CLUSTER, TAMIL NADU, INDIA.
 » Joshi, J. (2020). MSME Competitiveness Analysis of economy in transition from Factor Driven to Investment Driven Stage: Case study 
of Andhra Pradesh. International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications, 10(9).
 » Jhamb, D. P. (2016). An Application of Porter's Diamond Framework: A Case of Sports Goods Cluster at Jalandhar. Pacific Business 
Review Internationa, 8(8).
 » Ketels, C. (2017, June). Cluster Mapping as a Tool for Development.
 » Sölvell, Ö., Lindqvist, G., & Ketels, C. (2003). The Cluster Initiative Greenbook. Ivory Tower. Retrieved from https://www.hhs.se/
contentassets/f51b706e1d644e9fa6c4d232abd09e63/greenbooksep03.pdf
 » Neven, D., & Dröge, C. L. (2001). A Diamond for the Poor? Assessing Porter’s Diamond Model for the Analysis of Agro-Food Clusters 
in the Developing Countries.
 » Pathak, K. P., & Anis, A. (2011). National competitive Advantage of the readymade garment sector of Bangladesh: A diamond model 
perspective.
 » Porter, M. E. (1998). Clusters and the New Economies of Competition. Government and Policy Regulation, Harvard Business Review.
 » Schmitz, H. (1995). Collective efficiency: Growth path for small₹scale industry. The Journal of Development Studies, 31(4), 529–566. 

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/00220389508422377
 » Porter. (1990). The Competitive Advantage of Nations. New York : The Free Press.
 » Khatri, P. (2019). A Study of the Challenges of the Indian MSME Sector. IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM).
 » Sinha, U. K. (2019). Report of the Expert Committee on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. Development Commissioner Ministry 
of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
 » Better Criteria for Better Evaluation Revised Evaluation Criteria Definitions and Principles for Use. (2019). Retrieved from OECD/DAC 
Network on Development Evaluation: https://www.oecd.org/dac/evaluation/revised-evaluation-criteria-dec-2019.pdf
 » Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises. (n.d.). Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES. 
Retrieved from https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/CredirGuranteeFundScheme_1.pdf
 » About CGTMSE. (2023). Retrieved from https://www.cgtmse.in/Home/VS/3
 » Mund, C. S. (2020). Problems of MSME Finance in India and Role of Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises. 
IOSR Journal of Economics and Finance (IOSR-JEF).
 » Anu, D. L., & Lakshmisree, R. (2013). The Role of Banks in Empowering MSMEs for Financial Inclusion and Growth. Trends and 
Challenges in Global Business Management.
 » Asian Development Bank. (2022). Financing Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Asia and the Pacific-Credit Guarantee Schemes. 
Retrieved from https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/774531/financing-smes-credit-guarantee-schemes.pdf
 » Invest India. (2023, September). Assistance to Training Institutions (ATI) Scheme. Retrieved from Invest India: https://www.
investindia.gov.in/schemes-msmes-india/assistance-training-institutions-ati-scheme
 » Comptroller and Auditor General of India. (2021). Report No. 16 of 2021. Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
 » Comptroller and Auditor General of India. (2018). Report No. 10 of 2018, Compliance with Provisions of Public Procurement Policy, 
2012 For Micro and Small Enterprises. 
 » Patil, K. (2017, May 8). Public procurement policy for small and medium enterprises in developing countries: Evidence from India. 
International Journal of Public Sector Management, 30(4), 391-410. doi:https://doi.org/10.1108/IJPSM-10-2016-0160
 » PIB. (2023, March 27). Micro and Small Enterprises – Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) being implemented to enhance 
productivity and competitiveness of Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) for their holistic development adopting cluster approach. 
Retrieved from https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1911134#:~:text=The%20objective%20of%20the%20scheme,in%20
the%20existing%20clusters%20and
 » Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. (2023). Know about this Scheme - Micro and Small Enterprises Cluster 
Development Programme (MSE-CDP). Retrieved from https://msme.gov.in/know-about-scheme-1
 » (2019). Report of the Expert Committee on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. RBI.
 » Marshall, A. (1920). Principle of Economics. 
 » Porta, R. L., & Shleifer, A. (2014). Informality and Development. Journal of Economic Perspectives, 28(3), 109–126. doi:10.1257/
jep.28.3.109
 » ILO. (2023). Informal economy. Retrieved from Employment Policy Department ILO: https://www.ilo.org/employment/units/
emp-invest/informal-economy/lang--en/index.htm#:~:text=The%20informal%20economy%20comprises%20more,Small%20
Enterprises%20(MSEs)%20worldwide
 » Ishengoma, E. K., & Kappe, R. (2006). Economic Growth and Poverty: Does Formalisation of Informal Enterprises Matter? GIGa 
Working Papers.
 » Mehrotra, S., & Giri, T. (2019). The Size Structure of India's Enterprises: Not Just the Middle is Missing. CSE Working Paper #25, 

--- PAGE 118 ---
118
Centre for Sustainable Employment.
 » Kapoor, A., & Kowadkar, S. (2022, April 27). Gradual shift from informal to formal for MSMEs. Retrieved from The Economic 
Times: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/gradual-shift-from-informal-to-formal-for-msmes/
articleshow/91109053.cms 
 » Weder, B. (2003). Obstacles Facing Smaller Businesses in Developing Countries. In Pathways out of Poverty (pp. 215-225).
 » MSME Desk. (2022, July 11). Formalisation of MSMEs is our primary target and biggest ambition: MSME Secretary BB Swain. 
Retrieved from Financial Express: https://www.financialexpress.com/business/sme-msme-eodb-formalisation-of-msmes-is-our-
primary-target-and-biggest-ambition-msme-secretary-bb-swain-2586650/
 » Ministry of MSME. (2023). MSME Formalisation project. Retrieved from https://udyamassist.gov.in/msme-faq
 » Intellectual Capital Advisory Services Private Lim. (2012). Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Finance in India. International Finance 
Corporation (IFC). Retrieved from https://www.ifc.org/content/dam/ifc/doc/mgrt/msme-report-03-01-2013.pdf
 » Ambrose, J. (2012). Venture Capital (VC): The All-Important MSMEs Financial Strategy under Neglect in Kenya. International Journal 
of Business and Social Science, 3, 234-240.
 » Prasad, C. S. (2006). Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Financing in India—Issues and Concerns. CAB Calling, 35-40.
 » Banerjee, A. (2006). Capital Market Access to Smes in India. 10th Indian Institute of Capital Markets Conference Paper. 
 » Biswas, A. (2014). Financing Constraints for MSME Sector. International Journal of Interdisciplinary and Multidisciplinary Studies, 1, 
60-68.
 » Singh, C., & Wasdani, K. P. (2016, July). Finance for Micro, Small, and Medium-Sized Enterprises in India: Sources and Challenges. 
ADBI Working Paper(581). Retrieved from https://www.adb.org/publications/finance-micro-small-and-medium-sized-enterprises-
india-sources-and-challenges
 » Irwin, D., & Scott, J. M. (2010). Barriers faced by SMEs in raising bank finance. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour & 
Research, 16(3), 245-259. doi:10.1108/13552551011042816
 » Bebczuk, R. N. (2004). What Determines the Access to Credit by SMEs in Argentina?
 » Grant Thornton, FICCI. (2011). Vision 2020: Implications for MSMEs Implications for MSMEs.
 » Subramanian, G., & Nehru, D. S. (2012, April ). IMPLEMENTATION OF CREDIT RATING FOR SMEs (Small & Medium Enterprises)-HOW 
IS BENEFICIAL TO INDIAN SMEs? International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications, 2(4).
 » WIPO. (2023). Global Innovation Index 2023. World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).
 » Khatri, P. (2019, February). A study of the challenges of Indian MSME sector. IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM), 
21(02), 05-13. doi:10.9790/487X-2102050513 
 » Sinha, S., & Pental, K. (2017). Study on Demand for Skilled Labor in Unregistered MSMEs of India. World Bank.
 » C, H. (2013). SMEs and Regional Production Networks. Retrieved from https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/19-CHAPTER-2-
SMEs-and-Regional-Production-Networks-Harvie/1fa999afc6850facc571d33cbb1fa6e7d8c73fd8?p2df
 » Kanerva, M., Arundel, A., & Rene, K. (n.d.). Environmental Innovation : Using Qualitative Models to Indentify Indicators for Policy. 
Retrieved from https://figshare.utas.edu.au/articles/report/Environmental_innovation_Using_qualitative_models_to_identify_
indicators_for_policy/23200526/1
 » OECD. (2019). Going Digital: Shaping Policies, Improving Lives.
 » PIB Delhi. (2023, September 28). India retains 40th rank in the Global Innovation Index 2023. Retrieved from NITI Aayog: https://pib.
gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1961576

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
 » Patchouri, A., & Sharma, S. (2016). Barriers to Innovation in Indian Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises. ADBI Working Paper Series.
 » Singh, D. (2019). Implementation of technology innovation in MSMEs in India. Journal of Science and Technolgy Policy Management. 
doi:10.1108/jstpm-06-2018-0065
 » Ceuto, L. J., Frisnedi, A. F., Collera, R. B., Batac, I. K., & Agaton, C. B. (2022). Digital Innovations in MSMEs during Economic 
Disruptions: Experiences and Challenges of Young Entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship and Innovations: Challenges and Successes for 
Organisations in the Modern Business Environment. Retrieved from https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3387/12/1/8
 » Bhavani, T. A. (2002). Small-Scale Units in the Era of Globalisation: Problems and Prospects. Economic and Political Weekly, 37(29), 
3041-3052. Retrieved from https://www.jstor.org/stable/4412389
 » Ligthelm, A. (2010). Entrepreneurship and small business sustainability. Southern African Business Review, 14(3).
 » Oyong, L. (2019). The Effect of Entrepreneurial Behavior and Organizational Innovation on MSMEs Performance. JEMA: Jurnal Ilmiah 
Bidang Akuntansi dan Manajemen, 16(2). Retrieved from http://riset.unisma.ac.id/index.php/jema
 » Mitra, S., Nikore, M., & Gupta, K. (2021). Enhancing Competitiveness and Productivity of India’s Micro, Small, and Medium-Sized 
Enterprises during Pandemic Recovery. ADB Briefs.
 » March-Chorda, I. G. (2002). Product development process in Spanish SMEs: an empirical research. Technovation, 22(5), 301-312.
 » Xiong, M. T. (20016). ‘A DSS approach to managing customer enquiry stage. International Journal of Production Economics, 103, 
332-346.
 » Pradhan, J. P., & Das, K. (2013). Exporting by Indian small and medium enterprises: role of regional technological knowledge, 
agglomeration and foreign direct investment. Innovation and Development, 3(2).
 » Bonga, W. G. (2017). Challenges Faced by SMEs on Exportation and Possible Strategies. doi:10.2139/ssrn.2399878
 » Bhalla, N., Sharma, R. K., & Kaur, I. (2023). Effect of Goods and Service Tax System on Business Performance of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises. doi:10.1177/21582440231177210
 » Ponorica, A. G., & Al- Saedi, A. H. (n.d.). The Importance Of Taxation Systems For Sme Tax Compliance. International Management 
Conference. 9. Academy of Economic Studies.
 » Awasthi, R. (2011). MSME Taxation and State Building: Partnering in progress.
 » Musimenta , D., Muhwezi, M., & Akankunda, B. (2017). Tax compliance of small and medium enterprises: a developing country 
perspective. Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, 25(2), 149-175. doi:10.1108/JFRC-08-2016-0065
 » Inasius, F. (2018). Factors Influencing SME Tax Compliance: Evidence from Indonesia. International Journal of Public Administration. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01900692.2018.1464578
 » Akinboade, O. A. (2015). Determinants of SMEs growth and performance in Cameroon’s central and littoral provinces’ manufacturing 
and retail sectors. African Journal of Economic and Management Studies, 6(2), 183-196. doi:10.1108/AJEMS-03-2013-0033
 » Ouyang, J., Liu, S., & Li, H. (2023). How does the development of digital finance affect small business tax compliance? Empirical 
evidence from China. China Economic Review, 80. doi:10.1016/j.chieco.2023.101971
 » Sihombing, L. &. (2021). Effect of Economic and Non-Economic Factors on Tax Compliance with Trust as a Moderating Variable in 
SME (Case Study SME In Bekasi, Indonesia). International Journal of Innovative Science and Research Technology, 6(11).
 » Olawale, F., & Garwe, D. (2010). Obstacles to the growth of new SMEs in South Africa: A principal component analysis approach. 
African Journal of Business Management, 45(5), 729-738.
 » Singh, S., & Paliwal, M. (2017). Unleashing the growth potential of Indian MSME sector,. Comparative Economic Research. Central 
and Eastern Europe., 20(2), 35-52. doi:https://doi.org/10.1515/cer-2017-0011

--- PAGE 120 ---
120
 » PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry . (2022). Ease of Doing Buiness for MSMEs in Indua - Percolation EODB Reforms at 
Factory Level.
 » Prakash, B., Kumar, I., & Verma, J. K. (2021). “Barriers and potential solutions for MSMEs in developing economies: Evidence from 
India. Problems and Perspectives in Management.
 » Asghar, A. J., Paghaleh, M. J., & Khaksar, S. S. (2011). The Role of Government Policy and the Growth of Entrepreneurship in the 
Micro, Small (&) Medium-sized Enterprises in India: an Overview. Australian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences, 5(6).
 » Kadaba, D. M., Aithal, P., & Sharma, K. (2023). Government Initiatives and Digital Innovation for Atma Nirbhar MSMEs/SMEs: To 
Achieve Sustainable and Inclusive Economic Growth. International Journal of Management, Technology, and Social Sciences, 8(1), 
68-82.
 » Khatri, P. (2019). A Study of the Challenges of the Indian MSME Sector. IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM) , 
21(2). doi:10.9790/487X-2102050513
 » Gautam, N. (2022). Addressing the Gap Areas Crucial for Survival by Focusing on the Key Growth Determinants of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises in India: A Critical Analysis Pertaining to Textile Sector MSMEs. The Indian Economic Journal, 70(4), 577–596.
 » Angira Singh, & Swami, D. S. (2020). Missing middle’ and the Indian economic slowdown: A causal study. International Journal of 
Academic Research and Development, 5(3), 57-63.
 » Hasan, R., & Jandoc, K. L. (2010). The Distribution of Firm Size in India: What Can Survey Data Tell Us? ADB Economics Working 
Paper Series.
 » Nagaraj, R. (2018). Of “Missing Middle”, and Size-based Regulation - A New Frontier in the Labour Market Flexibility Debate. CSE 
Working Paper #7, Centre for Sustainable Employment, Azim Premiji University.
 » Kapoor, A. (2023). SME Transformation for Meeting the SDGs in Asia. Retrieved from https://apo-tokyo.org/publications/sme-
transformation-for-meeting-the-sdgs-in-asia/
 » Dhar, P., & Lydall, H. (1961). The Role of Small Enterprises in Indian Economic. Bombay: Asia Publishing House.
 » Tybout, J. (2000). Manufacturing Firms in Developing Countries: How Well Do They Do, and Why? Journal of Economic Perspectives. 
Retrieved from https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jel.38.1.11
 » Krueger, A. O. (2009). The Missing Middle , Working Paper , No. 230. Indian Council for Research on International Economic 
Relations (ICRIER. Retrieved from The Missing Middle, Working Paper, No. 230, .
 » Olken , B., & Hsieh, C. (2014). The Missing "Missing Middle". Journal of Economic Perspectives. Retrieved from https://pubs.aeaweb.
org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/jep.28.3.89
 » Storey, A., Pinch, S., & Mason, C. (1991). Self-Employment in a British City: An Analysis of Household Survey Data. Sage Journals.
 » PIB. (2023, August 07). Role of MSME Sector in the Country. Retrieved from Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises: https://
pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=1946375
 » Ghouse, S. M. (2014). Export Competitiveness of India: Can MSMEs play the Role? IJMRR, 4(11).
 » MSME. (2023). Annual Report 2022-23. New Delhi: GOI. Retrieved from https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/
MSMEANNUALREPORT2022-23ENGLISH.pdf
 » World Bank. (2022). Enterprise Surveys. Retrieved from World Bank Data Portel: www.enterprisesurveys.org
 » OECD. (2018). Strengthening SMEs and entrepreneurship for productivity and inclusive growth. Mexico City.
 » Sobir, R. (2020). Micro, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (MSMEs ) and Their Role in Achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals.

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
 » Khatri, P. (2019, February). A Study of the Challenges of the Indian MSME Sector. IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-
JBM), 21(02), 05-13. doi:10.9790/487X-2102050513 
 » Mukherjee, S., & Chanda, R. (2021). Tariff liberalization and firm-level markups in Indian manufacturin. Economic Modelling. 
Retrieved from https://doi.org/10.1016/j.econmod.2021.105594
 » Ministry of MSME. (2023). Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. Retrieved from Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises GOI: https://msme.gov.in/
 » Topalova, P. (2004). Trade Liberalization and Firm Productivity: The Case of India. SSRN Electronic Journal.
 » Kapoor, A., Ketels, C., Debroy, B., & Negi, S. (2023). The 2023 India Cluster Panorama. Economic Advisory Council to the Prime 
Minister. Retrieved from https://eacpm.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Report_India_Cluster_Panorama_2023.pdf
 » Institutions for Collaboration : Overview . Background note (January 2003). Retrieved from Institutions for Collaboration: Overview.
Background Note.
 » Anderson, L., Pekkari, M., Gray, J., Neugebauer, V., & Candotto, L. (2023). Building MSME resilience in Southeast Asia: With a country 
focus on Thailand and Malaysia [Report]. https://irff.undp.org/sites/default/files/2024-03/building-msme-resilience-in-southeast-
asia_0.pdf
 » Forty-Fourth report of the Public Accounts Committee (17th Lok Sabha): Functioning of Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and 
Small Enterprises. (2022). https://eparlib.nic.in/bitstream/123456789/845627/1/17_Public_Accounts_44.pdf
 » RBI. (n.d.). Data on sectoral deployment of bank credit [Dataset]. https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/Data_Sectoral_Deployment.aspx
 » SIDBI & TransUnion CIBIL Ltd. (2021, February). MSME Pulse. https://www.sidbi.in/head/uploads/msmepluse_documents/MSME%20
Report%208%20X%208_Feb%202024_Revised%2028th%20Feb.pdf
 » SIXTY-EIGHTH REPORT OF STANDING COMMITTEE ON FINANCE (2023-24): Action taken by the Government on the Observations/
Recommendations contained in Forty-Sixth Report (17th Lok Sabha) on the subject ‘Strengthening Credit Flows to the MSME 
Sector.’ (2024). https://eparlib.nic.in/bitstream/123456789/2975952/1/17_Finance_68.pdf#search=null%2017%20Committee%20
on%20Finance
 » Tenth report of the Standing Committee on Housing and Urban Affairs(17th Lok Sabha): PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM 
SVANidhi). (2021). https://eparlib.nic.in/bitstream/123456789/835424/1/17_Housing_and_Urban_Affairs_10.pdf
 » U.S.-E.U. Trade and Technology Council SME Working Group, Office of Advocacy, U.S. Small Business Administration, & Clark, M. L., 
III. (2023). U.S. SME Access and Use of Digital Tools. https://www.trade.gov/sites/default/files/2023-06/SME_Digital_Tools.pdf

--- PAGE 123 ---
Institute for Competitiveness, India is the Indian knot in the global network of the
Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness at Harvard Business School. Institute for
Competitiveness, India is an international initiative centered in India, dedicated to
enlarging and purposeful disseminating of the body of research and knowledge on
competition and strategy, as pioneered over the last 25 years by Professor Michael
Porter of the Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness at Harvard Business School.
Institute for Competitiveness, India conducts & supports indigenous research;
offers academic & executive courses; provides advisory services to the Corporate
& the Governments and organises events. The institute studies competition and its
implications for company strategy; the competitiveness of nations, regions & cities
and thus generate guidelines for businesses and those in governance; and suggests
& provides solutions for socio-environmental problems.
www.competitiveness.in


--- PAGE 124 ---
124
