--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-APEDA-001-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-APEDA-001
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 1000
Word Count: 1,000
--------------------

Title: APEDA Official Portal Root & Export Governance Overview URL: https://apeda.gov.in Scraped Date: 2026-07-03T10:41:23.830019 Home | APEDA You are being redirected to the APEDA Hindi Website Ok Close What's New Addendum II- Bids are invited for Design, Construction and Maintenance of “India Pavilion” at “THE SAUDI FOOD SHOW 2026” scheduled to be held from 27th -29th September 2026 in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia Bids are invited for Design, Construction, Maintenance and Execution of “2nd Edition of the International Reverse Buyer - Seller Meet (RBSM), scheduled to be held on 27th and 28th July 2026 at Gyan Bhawan, Patna, Bihar” Layout Plan- Bids are invited for Design, Construction, Maintenance and Execution of “2nd Edition of the International Reverse Buyer - Seller Meet (RBSM), scheduled to be held on 27th and 28th July 2026 at Gyan Bhawan, Patna, Bihar” Addendum I- Bids are invited for Design, Construction and Maintenance of “India Pavilion” at “THE SAUDI FOOD SHOW 2026” scheduled to be held from 27th -29th September 2026 in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia Procedure for import of NOP - Certified organic ingredients for value addition/processing for re-export to USA View All Sectors Market Intelligence Reports CEREALS FRESH FRUITS & VEGETABLES PROCESSED FOOD ANIMAL PRODUCTS ORGANIC PRODUCTS MILLETS CASHEW GROUNDNUT ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FLORICULTURE & SEEDS Cereals India is the world's second-largest producer of Rice, Wheat and other cereals. The huge demand for cereals in the global market is creating an excellent environment for the export of Indian cereal products. In 2008, India imposed a ban on the export of rice and wheat, etc to meet domestic needs. Now, seeing the huge demand in the global market and the country's surplus production, India has lifted the ban, but only a limited amount of export of the commodity is allowed. Read more... BEDF Floriculture & Seeds India is bestowed with several agro-climatic zones conducive to the production of sensitive and delicate floriculture products. During the decade after liberalization floriculture industries took giant steps in the export arena. This era has seen a dynamic shift from sustenance production to commercial production. As per National Horticulture Database published by NHB, floriculture in India has grown by 5 times over last 4 years India is bestowed with several agro-climatic zones conducive to the production of sensitive and delicate floriculture products. Read more... Fresh Fruits & Vegetables India's diverse climate ensures the availability of all varieties of fresh fruits & vegetables. It ranks second in fruits and vegetable production in the world, after China. As per National Horticulture Database (1st Advance Estimates) published by National Horticulture Board 2023-24, India produced11.21 million metric tonnes of fruits and 209.39 million metric tonnes of vegetables. The area under cultivation of fruits stood at 7.15 million hectares while vegetables ... India's diverse climate ensures the availability of all varieties of fresh fruits & vegetables. It ranks second in fruits and vegetable production in the world, after China. Read more... Processed Food The food processing sector is one of the largest sectors in India in terms of production, growth, consumption, and export. India's food processing sector covers fruit and vegetables, spices, meat and poultry, milk and milk products, alcoholic beverages, fisheries, plantation, grain processing and other consumer product groups like confectionery, chocolates and cocoa products soya-based products, mineral water, high protein foods, etc. Since liberalization in August 1991. Besides this, Govt. has also approved proposals for joint ventures, foreign collaboration, industrial licenses and 100% export-oriented units envisaging an investment. The foreign direct investment in food processing sector in 2023-24 is estimated to be 5037 crores/608 USD Million. Read more... Animal Products Animal Products play an important role in the socio-economic life of India. It is a rich source of high-quality animal products such as milk, meat and eggs. India has emerged as the largest producer of milk with a 24 percent share in Total Milk Production in the world in 2022. India accounts for about 7.25 percent of the Global Egg Production in 2021 and has the largest population of milch animals in the world, with 109.85 million buffaloes, 148.88 million goats and 74.26 million sheeps in 2019. The growth rate recorded was highest for Sheep 14.13 per cent followed by Goat 10.14 per cent and Buffalo 1.06 per cent during 2012 to 2019. Read more... Indian Millets Indian millets are a group of nutritiously rich, drought tolerant and mostly grown in the arid and semi-arid regions of India. They are small-seeded grasses belonging to the botanical family Poaceae. They constitute an important source of food and fodder for millions of resource-poor farmers and play a vital role in ecological and economic security of India. These millets are also known as "coarse cereals" or "cereals of the poor". Indian Millets are nutritionally superior to wheat and rice as they are rich in protein, vitamins and minerals. Read more... Organic Products Organic products are grown under a system of agriculture without the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides with an environmentally and socially responsible approach. This is a method of farming that works at grass root level preserving the reproductive and regenerative capacity of the soil, good plant nutrition, and sound soil management, produces nutritious food rich in vitality which has resistance to diseases. Read more... Organic Promotion Portal Cashew Cashew (Anacardium occidentale L.), one of the most important cash crops introduced to India in 16th century by Portuguese. In India, Cashew was initially introduced in Goa and further expanded to other states. As a resilient and drought resistant tree that is adaptable to poor soil conditions, it offers environmental benefits in the fight to combat deforestation and soil erosion hence it is known as Gold Mine of Waste Land. In 2022, India ranks second globally in the export of Cashew Nuts Fresh/Dried Shelled (HS Code: 080132), holding an 8.72% market share also India is the world's second-largest importer of Cashew Nuts Fresh/Dried In Shell (HS Code: 080131). Read more... Groundnut Peanut or groundnut (Arachis hypogaea) is a species in the legume or "bean" - (Fabaceae) family. The