--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C80
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 21
Word Range: 20666 - 21064
Word Count: 399
--------------------

[Page 21]
intended users of that inf or mation. Although the objective is to hav e a similar level of assurance f or fi nancial and 
sustainability repor ting, the absence of a commonly agreed standard f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
creat es the r isk of diffe rent understandings and expectations of what a reasonable assurance enga gement w ould 
consist of f or different categor ies of sustainability inf or mation, especially with regar d to f or ward-looking and 
qualitative disclosures.
Theref ore, a progressive approach to enhancing the level of the assurance required f or sustainability inf or mation 
should be considered, star ting with an oblig ation on the statutor y auditor or audit fir m to express an opinion about 
the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with U nion requirements based on a limited assurance engag ement. 
That opinion should cover the compl iance of the sustainability repor ting with U nion sustainability repor ting 
standards, the process car r ied out by the under taking to identify the inf or mation repor te d pursuant to the 
sustainability repor ting standards and compl iance with the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting. The 
auditor should also assess whether the under taking’s repor ting complies with the repor ting requirements of 
Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. T o ensure a common understanding and common expectations of what a 
reasonable assurance engag ement would consist of, the statut or y auditor or audit fir m should be required to express 
an opinion based on a reasonable assurance engag ement about the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with 
U nion requirements, when the Commission adopts assurance standards f or reasonable assurance of sustainability 
repor ting by means of delegat ed acts no later than 1 October 2028 , f ollowing an assessment to deter mine if 
reasonable assurance is f easible f or auditors and under takings.
The gradual approach from limited assurance engag ements to reasonable assurance engag ements w ould also allow 
f or the progressive development of the assurance mark et f or sustainability inf or mation, and of under takings’ 
repor ting practices. Finally , such gradual approach would phase in the increase in costs f or repor ting under takings, 
given that assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement is more costly than 
assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a limite d assurance engag ement. Under takings subject to 
sustainability repor ting requirements should be able to decide to hav e an assurance opinion on their sustainability 
repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement if they so wish, and in such cases they should be deemed to 
hav e compl ied with the oblig ation to hav e an opinion based on a limited assurance engag ement. The opinion based 
on a reasonable assurance engag ement concer ning f or ward-looking inf or mation is only an assurance that such 
inf or mation has been prepared in accordance with applicable standards.
(61) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms already ver ify the financial stat ements and the management repor t. The assurance 
of sustainability repor ting by the statutor y auditors or audit fir ms w ould help to ensure the connectivity between, 
and consiste ncy of, financia l and sustainability inf or mation, which is par ticularly im por tant f or users of 
sustainability inf or mation. However , there is a r isk of fur ther concentration of the audit mark et, which could r isk 
the independence of auditors and increase audit f ees or fe es relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
Consider ing the ke y role of statut or y auditors when providin g assurance of sustainability repor ting and ensur ing 
reliable sustainability inf or mation, the Commission has announced that it will act to fur ther enhance audit quality 
and to create a more open and diversif ied audit market, which are the conditions f or the successful application of 
this amending Directive. In addition, it is desirable to offe r under takings a broader c hoice of independent assurance 
ser vices provid ers f or the assurance of sustainably repor ting. Member Stat es should theref ore be allowed to accredit 
independent assurance ser vices providers in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European 
P arliament and of the Council (
34
) to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, which should be 
published tog ether with the management repor t. In addition, Member State s should be given the op tion of allowing 
(
34
) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements f or 
accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/35