--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C211
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 65
Word Range: 55276 - 55525
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 65]
Member Stat es shall apply the measures necessar y to compl y with Ar ticle 3 f or fi nancial ye ars star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 
2024 .
3. When Member States adopt the measures ref er red to in paragraph 1, they shall contain a ref erence to this Directive or 
shall be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their off icial publication. Member Stat es shall det er mine how 
such ref erence is to be made.
4. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national la w whic h the y 
adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Ar ticle 6
Review and repor ting
1. The Commission shall submit a repor t to the European P arliament and to the Council on the im plementation of this 
amending Directive, including, inter alia:
(a) an assessment of the achi evement of the goals of this amending Directive, including the con vergence of repor ting 
practices between Member Stat es;
(b) an assessment of the number of small and medium-sized under takings v oluntar ily using the sustainability repor ting 
standards ref er red to in Ar ticle 29c of Directive 2013/34/EU;
(c) an assessment of whether and how the scope of the provisions amended by this amending Directive should be fur ther 
extended, in par ticular in relation to small and medium-sized under takings and to third-countr y under takings 
operating directly on the U nion internal mark et without a subsidiar y or a branch on the terr itory of the U nion;
(d) an assessment of the implementation of the repor ting requirements on subsidiar ies and branche s of third-countr y 
under takings introduced by this amending Directive, including an assessment of the number of third-countr y 
under takings whic h hav e a subsidiar y under taking or a branch repor ting in accordance with Ar ticle 40a of Directive 
2013/34/EU; an assessment of the enf orcement mech anism and of the thresholds set out in that Ar ticle;
(e) an assessment of whether and how to ensure the accessibility f or persons with disabilities to the sustainability repor ts 
published by under takings f alling under the scope of this amending Directive.
The repor t shall be published by 30 Apr il 2029 and ever y three y ears thereaf ter , and shall be accompan ied, if appropr iat e, 
by legislative proposals.
2. By 31 December 2028 , the Commission shall review and repor t on the level of concentration of the sustainability 
assurance mark et. That review shall take into account the national regimes applicable to independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers and assess whether and to what extent those national regimes contr ibut e to opening up the assurance mark et.
By 31 December 2028 , the Commission shall assess possible legal measures to ensure sufficient diversif ication of the 
sustainability assurance mark et and appropr iate sustainability repor ting quality . The Commission shall review the 
measures provid ed f or in Ar ticle 34 of Directive 2013/34/EU and assess the need to extend them to other larg e 
under takings.
The repor t shall be transmitted to the European P arliament and the Council by 31 December 2028 and shall be 
accompan ied, if appropr iat e, by legislative proposals.
Ar ticle 7
Entr y int o f orce and application
This Directive shall ent er into f orce on the twentieth da y f ollowing that of its publication in the Off icial Jour nal of the 
Eur opean Union.
Ar ticle 4 of this Directive shall apply from 1 Januar y 2024 f or financial ye ars star ting on or af ter 1 Januar y 2024 .
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/79