--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C76
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 20
Word Range: 19649 - 19898
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 20]
repor t can also give the impression, internal ly and extern ally , that sustainability inf or mation belongs to a cate gor y of 
less relevant inf or mation, which can impact negat ively on the perceived reliability of the inf or mation. Unde r takings 
should theref ore repor t sustainability inf or mation in a clearly identif iable dedicat ed section of the management 
repor t and Member Stat es should no long er be allowed to exe mp t under takings from the oblig ation to include in 
the manage ment repor t inf or mation on sustainability matt ers.
Such oblig ation w ould also help to clar ify the role of national compet ent author ities in super vising sustainability 
repor ting, as par t of the management repor t prepared in accordance with Directive 2004/109/EC. In addition, 
under takings required to repor t sustainability inf or mation should in no case be exem pt ed from the oblig ation to 
publish the manag ement repor t, as it is impor tant to ensure that sustainability inf or mation is publicly av ailable.
(58) Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires under takings whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulat ed 
mark et in the Union to include a cor porat e governance state ment in their management repor t, whic h has to 
contain, among other inf or mation, a descr ip tion of the diversity policy applied by the under taking in relation to its 
administrative, manage ment and super visor y bodies. Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU leav es f lexibility to 
under takings to decide what aspects of diversity the y repor t on. It does not explicitly oblig e under takings to include 
inf or mation on an y par ticular aspect of diversity . In order to progress to wards a more gender -balanced par ticipation 
in economic decision-making, it is necessar y to ensure that under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on 
a regulated market in the U nion alwa ys repor t on their gender diversity policies and the implementation thereof. 
However , to av oid an unnecessar y administrative burden, such under takings should hav e the possibility of 
repor ting some of the inf or mation required by Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU alongside other sustainability 
inf or mation. If they decide to do so, the cor porat e govern ance statement should include a referen ce to the 
under taking’s sustainability repor ting, and the inf or mation required under Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU 
should remain subject to the assurance requirements of the cor porat e go ver nance stat ement.
(59) Ar ticle 33 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires Member Stat es to ensure that the members of the administrative, 
manage ment and super visor y bodies of an under taking hav e collective responsibility f or ensur ing that the annual 
fi nancial statemen ts, the consolidat ed fi nancial statements, the manag ement repor t, the consolidate d management 
repor t, the cor porat e go ver nance stat ement and the consolidated cor porate govern ance statement are dra wn up and 
published in accordance with the requirements of that Directive. That collective responsibility should be extende d to 
the digitalisation requirements laid down in Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815, to the requirement to compl y 
with U nion sustainability repor ting standards and to the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting.
(60) The assurance profession distinguishes between limite d assurance engag ements and reasonable assurance 
engag ements. The conclusion of a limited assurance engag ement is usually provi ded in a negativ e f or m of 
expression by stating that no matt er has been identified by the practitioner to conclude that the subject matt er is 
mater ially misstated. In a limite d assurance enga gement, the auditor performs fe wer tes ts than in a reasonable 
assurance engag ement. The amount of w ork f or a limited assurance eng agement is theref ore less than f or a 
reasonable assurance engag ement. The amount of w ork in a reasonable assurance engag ement entails extensi ve 
procedures including consideration of intern al controls of the repor ting under taking and substantive tes ting, and is 
theref ore significantly greater than in a limite d assurance enga gement.
The conclusion of a reasonable assurance engag ement is usually pro vided in a positive f or m of expression and results 
in provid ing an opinion on the measurement of the subject matte r ag ainst previously defined cr it er ia. Directive 
2013/34/EU requires Member Stat es to ensure that the statut or y auditor or audit fir m c hecks whether the non- 
fi nancial state ment or the separate repor t has been provid ed. It does not require that an independent pro vider of 
assurance ser vices ver ify the inf or mation, although it allows Member States to require such ver ification where they 
so wish. The absence of an assurance requirement concer ning sustainability repor ting, in contrast to the 
requirement f or the statutor y auditor to car r y out statutor y audits based on a reasonable assurance engag ement, 
w ould threaten the credibility of the sustainability inf or mation disclosed, thus failing to meet the needs of the 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/34 16.12.2022