--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C41
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 11
Word Range: 10613 - 10862
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
end to the pr incipal actual and poten tial adverse im pacts connected with their activities and identifies how 
under takings address those adverse im pacts. Im pacts connected with an under taking’s activities include im pacts 
directly caused by the under taking, impa cts to which the under taking contr ibut es, and impacts which are other wise 
linked to the under taking’s value c hain. The due dilig ence process concer ns the whole value chain of the under taking 
including its o wn operations, its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply c hains. In line with 
the UN Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human Rights, an actual or poten tial adverse im pact is to be considered 
a pr incipal impa ct where it ranks among the greate st impacts connected with the under taking’s activities based on: 
the grav ity of the impact on people or the envi ronment ; the number of individuals that are or could be affe cted, or 
the scale of damage to the en vironment ; and the ease with which the har m could be remediated , restor ing the 
en vironment or affect ed people to their pr ior state.
(32) Directive 2013/34/EU does not require the disclosure of inf or mation on intangible resources other than intangible 
assets recognised in the balance sheet. It is widely recognised that inf or mation on intangible assets and other 
intangible f actors, including inte r nally generat ed intangible resources, is under repor ted, im peding the proper 
assessment of an under taking’s development, performa nce and position, and the monitori ng of inve stments. T o 
enable inv estors to bette r understand the increasing g ap between the accounting book value of man y under takings 
and their market valuation, which is obser ved in man y sectors of the economy , adequate repor ting on intangible 
resources should be required of all larg e under takings and all under takings, excep t micro-under takings, whose 
secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d market in the Uni on. Nonetheless, cer tain inf or mation on 
intangible resources is intr insic to sustainability matt ers, and should theref ore be par t of sustainability repor ting. 
For examp le, inf or mation about em plo ye es ’ skills, compet ences, exper ience, lo yalty to the under taking and 
motivation f or impro ving processes, goods and ser vices, is sustainability inf or mation rega rding social matters that 
could also be considered as inf or mation on intangible resources. Like wise, inf or mation about the quality of the 
relationships between the under taking and its stak eholders, including customer s, suppliers and communities 
affe cted by the activities of the under taking, is sustainability inf or mation relevant to social or governance matte rs 
that could also be considered as inf or mation on intangible resources. Such examples illustrate how in some cases it 
is not possible to distinguish inf or mation on intangible resources from inf or mation on sustainability matt ers.
(33) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU do not specify whether the inf or mation to be repor ted is 
to be f or ward-looking or inf or mation about past performa nce. There is cur rently a lac k of f or ward-looking 
disclosures, which users of sustainability inf or mation especially value. Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 
2013/34/EU should theref ore specify that the sustainability inf or mation repor ted is to include f or ward-looking and 
retrospective inf or mation and both qualitative and quantitative inf or mation. Inf or mation should be based on 
conclusive scientific evidence where appropr iat e. Inf or mation should also be har monized, comparable and based 
on unif or m indicators where appropr iate, while allowing f or repor ting that is specif ic to individual under takings 
and does not endange r the commercial position of the under taking. Repor ted sustainability inf or mation should also 
take into account shor t-, medium- and long-t er m time hor izons and contain inf or mation about the under taking’s 
whole value chain, including its own operations, its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply 
c hain, as appropr iat e. Inf or mation about the under taking’s whole value chain w ould include inf or mation relat ed to 
its value c hain within the Uni on and inf or mation that covers third countr ies if the under taking’s value c hain extends 
outside the Union. For the fi rst three yea rs of the application of the measures to be adop ted by the Member Stat es in 
accordance with this amending Directive, in the event that not all the necessar y inf or mation regar ding the value 
c hain is av ailable, the under taking should explain the eff or ts made to obtain the inf or mation about its value c hain, 
the reasons why that inf or mation could not be obtained, and the plans of the under taking to obtain such 
inf or mation in the future.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/25