--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C37
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 9541 - 9790
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
the def inition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 does not explicitly include 
governance matters. The definit ion of the term ‘sustainability matte rs’ in Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this 
amending Directive should theref ore co ver envi ronmental, social and human r ights, and governance f actors, and 
incor porate the def inition of the term ‘sustainability f actors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. The 
repor ting requirements of Directive 2013/34/EU should be without prejudice to national repor ting obligations.
(29) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require repor ting not only on inf or mation to the extent 
necessar y f or an understanding of the under taking’s development, performa nce and position, but also on 
inf or mation necessar y f or an understanding of the im pact of the under taking’s activities on en vironmental, social 
and em plo ye e matt ers, respect f or human r ights, anti-cor r upti on and br iber y matters. Those Ar ticles theref ore 
require under takings to repor t both on the impa cts of the activities of the under taking on people and the 
en vironment, and on how sustainability matt ers affect the under taking. That is refer red to as the double mat er iality 
perspective, in which the r isks to the under taking and the im pacts of the under taking each represent one mater iality 
perspective. The fitness c heck on cor porate repor ting sho ws that those two perspectives are of ten not well 
underst ood or applied. It is theref ore necessar y to clar ify that under takings should consider each mat er iality 
perspective in its own r ight, and should disclose inf or mation that is mate r ial from both perspectives as well as 
inf or mation that is mate r ial from only one perspective.
(30) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to disclose inf or mation about fi ve 
repor ting areas: business model; policies, including due dilig ence processes implement ed; the outcome of those 
policies; r isks and r isk manag ement ; and ke y performa nce indicator s relevant to the business. Ar ticle 19a(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU does not contain explicit refe rences to other repor ting areas that users of inf or mation 
consider relevant, some of which align with disclosures included in internatio nal framew ork s, including the 
recommendations of the T ask Force on Climate-relat ed Financial Disclosures. Disclosure requirements should be 
specifi ed in sufficient detail to ensure that under takings repor t inf or mation on their resilience in relation to r isks 
relat ed to sustainability matt ers. In addition to the repor ting areas identif ied in Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU, under takings should be required to disclose inf or mation about their business strategy and 
the resilience of the business model and strateg y in relation to r isks related to sustainability matt ers. They should 
also be required to disclose any plans they ma y hav e to ensure that their business model and strategy are compati ble 
with the transition to a sustainable econom y and with the objectives of limiting g lobal war ming to 1,5 °C in line with 
the P ar is Agreement and achi eving climate neutrality by 2050, as established in Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, with no 
or limited overshoot.
It is especially im por tant that plans relat ed to the climat e be based on the latest science, including Intergo ver nmental 
P anel on Climate Change (IPCC) repor ts and repor ts by the European Scientifi c Ad visor y Board on Climate Change. 
Inf or mation disclosed in accordance with Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 about the amount of capital 
expenditure (CapEx) or operating expenditure (OpEx) associated with tax onomy-al igned activities could suppor t 
fi nancial and inve stment plans related to such plans where appropr iate. Under takings should also be required to 
disclose whether and how their business model and strateg y take account of the interests of stakeholders; an y 
oppor tunities f or the under taking ar ising from sustainability matters; the implementation of the aspects of the 
business strategy which affect, or are aff ected by , sustainability matt ers; any sustainability targe ts set by the 
under taking and the progress made to wards achi eving them; the role of the board and managemen t with regard to 
sustainability matters; the pr incipal actual and potential adverse im pacts connecte d with the under taking’s activities; 
and how the under taking has identif ied the inf or mation that it repor ts on. Once the disclosure of elements, such as 
targets and the progress to wards achi eving them, is required, a separate requirement to disclose the outcomes of 
policies is no long er necessar y .
(31) T o ensure consistency with internati onal instr uments such as the UN ‘Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human 
Rights: Implementing the Unit ed Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framew ork’ (‘UN Guiding Pr inciples on 
Business and Human Rights’ ), the OECD Guidelines f or Multinational Enter pr ises and the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance f or Responsible Business Conduct, the due dilig ence disclosure requirements should be specified in greate r 
detail than is cur rently the case in point (b) of Ar ticle 19a(1) and point (b) of Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU. 
Due dilig ence is the process that under takings car r y out to identify , monitor , prevent, mitig ate, remediate or br ing an 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/24 16.12.2022