--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C84
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 22 to Page 23
Word Range: 21815 - 22064
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 22]
a statutor y auditor , other than the one(s) car r ying out the statutor y audit of the financia l state ments, to express an 
assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting. Fur ther more, if they allo w independent assurance ser vices provid ers 
to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, Member Stat es should also allo w a statut or y auditor , other 
than the one(s) car r ying out the statut or y audit of the fi nancial statements, to express an assurance opinion on 
sustainability repor ting.
Member Stat es should set out requirements that ensure the quality of the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied 
out by independent assurance ser vices pro viders and consistent outcomes in the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting. Theref ore, all independent assurance ser vices providers should be subject to requirements that are 
equivalent to the requirements set out in Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (
35
)
as regar ds the assurance of sustainability repor ting, while being adap ted to the charact er istics of independent 
assurance ser vices pro viders which do not car r y out statut or y audits. In par ticular , Member State s should set out 
equivalent requirements as regards training and examination, continuing education, quality assurance system s, 
professiona l ethics, independence, objectivity , conf identiality and profess ional secrecy , appointment and dismissal, 
the org anisation of the w ork of independent assurance ser vices provid ers, investig ations and sanctions, and the 
repor ting of ir regular ities. This w ould also guarant ee a level pla ying field among all persons and fir ms allo wed by 
Member Stat es to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, including statutor y auditors. If an 
under taking seeks the opinion of an accredit ed independent assurance ser vices provid er other than the statutor y 
auditor on its sustainability repor ting, it should not in addition need to request an assurance opinion on its 
sustainability repor ting from the statutor y auditor .
Independent assurance ser vices provid ers that hav e already been accredited by a Member Stat e f or the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting should continue to be allowe d to do so. Like wise, Member States should ensure that 
independent assurance ser vices providers that, by the dat e of application of the new requirements on training and 
examination, are undergoing their accreditation process are not subject to those new accreditation requirements, 
provid ed the y compl ete that process within two yea rs of the dat e of application of those new requirements. Member 
State s should, however , ensure that all the independent assurance ser vices pro viders accredite d by a Member State f or 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting within two y ears of the date of application of the new accreditation 
requirements, acquire the necessar y knowledg e in sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting through continued profes sional education.
(62) In order to f oste r the free move ment of ser vices, Member State s should allo w independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers established in a diffe rent Member State to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in their 
terr itory . This w ould also f av our opening up the assurance mark et even when not all Member State s allo w f or the 
accreditation of independent assurance ser vices provid ers in their terr it or y . Where independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the terr it or y of a host Member State, that host 
Member State should be able to decide to super vise independent assurance ser vices providers, given the possibility 
to leverage on the implement ed framew ork f or the super vision of auditors car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting.
(63) Member States should ensure that when an under taking is required by Union la w to hav e elements of its 
sustainability repor ting ver ified by an accredit ed independent third par ty , the repor t of the accredited independent 
third par ty should be made available either as an annex to the manage ment repor t or by any other publicly 
accessible means. Such making ava ilable of that repor t should not pre-emp t the outcome of the assurance opinion 
of whic h the third-par ty ver ification should remain independent. It should not entail any duplication of w ork 
between the auditor or the independent assurance ser vices pro vider that expresses the assurance opinion and the 
accredite d independent third par ty .
(
35
) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 17 Ma y 2006 on statut or y audits of annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC 
(OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/36 16.12.2022

[Page 23]
(64) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules concer ning the statut or y audit of annual and consolidated fi nancial statements. 
It is necessar y to ensure that consistent r ules apply to the audit of fi nancial stat ements and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting by the statut or y auditor . Directive 2006/43/EC should apply where the assurance opinion 
on sustainability repor ting is expressed by a statut or y auditor or an audit fir m.
(65) The r ules on the approval and recognition of statutor y auditors and audit fir ms should allow statutor y auditor s to 
qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Member States should ensure that statutor y auditors who 
wish to qualify f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting ha ve the necessar y level of theoretical knowledg e of 
subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice.
Theref ore, statut or y auditors should complet e practical training of at least eight months in the assurance of annual 
and consolidated sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices, taking account of previous 
emplo yment exper ience. Howe ver , statut or y auditors that have already been appro ved or recognised in a Member 
State should continue to be allo wed to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Likewise, Member Stat es 
should ensure that natural persons who are undergoing the approval process at the dat e of application of the 
requirements f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting established by this amending Directive are not subject to 
those requirements, provid ed they complet e the process within the f ollo wing two ye ars. Member Stat es should, 
however , ensure that statut or y auditors appro ved within two y ears of the date of application of those requirements 
and who wish to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting acquire the necessar y knowledg e in 
sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability repor ting via continued profes sional education. Natural 
persons who decide to be appro ved only as statut or y auditors f or statutor y audit should be able to decide at a later 
point in time to qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. In order to do so, such persons should 
meet the necessar y requirements set out by Member Stat es to ensure that they also hav e the necessar y level of 
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such 
knowledg e in practice.
(66) It should be ensured that the requirements imposed on auditors as regar ds the statutor y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting they car r y out are consiste nt. Theref ore, there should be at least one designate d person who 
is actively inv olved in car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting (‘ke y sustainability par tner ’). When 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, statut or y auditors should be required to devot e sufficient time 
and assign sufficient resources and exper tise in order to car r y out their duties appropr iately . The client account 
record should specify the f ees c harged f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting and an assurance fi le should be 
creat ed to include inf or mation relat ed to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Where the same statutor y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to include the assurance file in the audit file. However , requirements imposed on statut or y auditors 
relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting should only apply to those statut or y auditors that car r y out the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(67) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms that car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting should hav e a high level of 
tec hnical and specialised exper tise in the fi eld of sustainability .
(68) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to put appropr iate r ules in place to av oid the fe es on the statut or y 
audit being inf luenced or det er mined by the provision of additional ser vices to the audited entity or being based on 
any f or m of contingenc y . That Directive also requires Member Stat es to ensure that statutor y auditors car r ying out 
statut or y audits compl y with the r ules on professional ethics, independence, objectivity , confidentiality and 
professiona l secrecy . For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iate that those r ules be exte nded to statutor y auditors 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/37