--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C45
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 11613 - 11862
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 12]
(34) It is not the objective of this amending Directive to require under takings to disclose intellectual capital, intellectual 
proper ty , know-ho w or the results of innovati on that w ould qualify as trade secrets as defined in Directive (EU) 
2016/943 of the European P arliament and of the Council (
22
) . Repor ting requirements pro vided f or in this 
amending Directive should theref ore be without prejudice to Directive (EU) 2016/943.
(35) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to include in their non-financial 
repor ting refe rences to, and additional explanations of, amounts repor ted in the annual fi nancial statements. Those 
Ar ticles do not, however , require under takings to make ref erences to other inf or mation in the management repor t 
or to add additional explanations to that inf or mation. Thus, there is cur rently a lack of consist ency between non- 
fi nancial inf or mation repor ted and the rest of the inf or mation disclosed in the management repor t. It is necessar y 
to la y down clear requirements in this regard.
(36) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to provid e a clear and reasoned 
explanation f or not pursuing policies in relation to one or more of the matt ers list ed in those Ar ticles, where the 
under taking does not do so. The differ ent treatment of disclosures on the policies that under takings ma y hav e, 
compare d to the other repor ting areas included in those Ar ticles, has created confusion among repor ting 
under takings and has not helped to im prove the quality of the repor ted inf or mation. Theref ore, there is no need to 
maintain such diff erent treatment of policies in that Directive. The sustainability repor ting standards should 
det er mine what inf or mation needs to be disclosed in relation to each of the repor ting areas mentioned in Ar ticles 
19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this amending Directive.
(37) U nder takings that fall under the scope of Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU ma y rely on 
national, Union-based or international repor ting frameworks, and where they do so, they hav e to specify which 
framewor k s they hav e relied upon. However , Directive 2013/34/EU does not require under takings to use a 
common repor ting framewor k or standard, and it does not prevent under takings from choosing not to use an y 
repor ting framew ork or standards at all. As required by Ar ticle 2 of Directive 2014/95/EU, on 5 July 2017 , the 
Commission adopt ed a Communication entitled ‘Guidelines on non-financial repor ting (methodology f or repor ting 
non-fi nancial inf or mation)’ (‘Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting’), provi ding f or non-binding guidelines f or 
under takings that fa ll under the scope of that Directive.
On 17 June 2019 , the Commission adopt ed its Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation, containing 
additional guidelines, specifi cally on repor ting climate -related inf or mation. Those Guidelines on repor ting climat e- 
relat ed inf or mation explicitly incor porat ed the recommendations of the T ask Force on Climat e-related Financial 
Disclosures. A vailable evidence indicates that the Guidelines on non-fi nancial repor ting did not hav e a signif icant 
imp act on the quality of non-fi nancial repor ting by under takings under the scope of Ar ticles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU. The volun tar y nature of the guidelines means that under takings are free to decide whether 
to apply them or not. The guidelines can theref ore not ensure on their own the comparab ility of the inf or mation 
disclosed by diff erent under takings, or the disclosure of all inf or mation that users of that inf or mation consider 
relevant. That is why there is a need f or mandatory common sustainability repor ting standards to ensure that 
inf or mation is compara ble and that all relevant inf or mation is disclosed. Building on the double mater iality 
pr inciple, standards should co ver all inf or mation that is mater ial to users of that inf or mation. Common 
sustainability repor ting standards are also necessar y to enable the assurance and digitalisation of sustainability 
repor ting and to f acilitate its super vision and enf orcement.
The development of mandatory common sustainability repor ting standards is necessar y to reach a situation in whic h 
sustainability inf or mation has a status compara ble to that of fi nancial inf or mation. The adoptio n of sustainability 
repor ting standards by means of delegat ed acts would ensure har monised sustainability repor ting across the Union. 
(
22
) Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undisclosed know-ho w 
and business inf or mation (trade secrets) again st their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/26 16.12.2022