--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C147
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 43
Word Range: 38210 - 38459
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 43]
If a Member Stat e, pursuant to the first subparagraph, decides to allow an independent assurance ser vices provider 
to express the opinion refe r red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, it shall also allo w a 
statutor y auditor other than the one(s) car r ying out the statutor y audit of fi nancial stat ements to do so, as 
provided f or in paragraph 3.
5. From 6 Januar y 2027 , a Member State that has made use of the option provided f or in paragraph 4 (the 
“host Member State ”) shall allow independent assurance ser vices provid er established in a Member State other 
than the host Member State (the “home Member State ”) to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
The home Member State shall be responsible f or the super vision of the independent assurance ser vices providers 
established in its terr itory , unless the host Member State decides to super vise the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting car r ied out by independent assurance ser vices provid ers in its terr itory .
If the host Member Stat e decides to super vise the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied out in its te r r it or y 
by independent assurance ser vices pro viders register ed in another Member State , the host Member State shall:
(a) not im pose more str ing ent requirements or liability on such independent assurance ser vices provi ders than 
those required f or assurance of sustainability repor ting by the national laws f or the independent assurance 
ser vices provid ers or auditor s established in that host Member State; and
(b) inf or m other Member Stat es about its decision to super vise the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied 
out by independent assurance ser vices providers established in other Member Stat es.
6. Member State s shall ensure that where an under taking is required by Union law to have elements of its 
sustainability repor ting ver if ied by an accredited independent third par ty , the repor t of the accredit ed 
independent third par ty is made ava ilable either as an annex to the manage ment repor t or by other publicly 
accessible means.
_____________
(*) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 17 Ma y 2006 on statut or y audits of 
annual accounts and consolidate d accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and 
repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC (OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87).’;
(14) the f ollo wing chap te r is inser ted:
‘CHAPTER 9a
REPORTING CONC ERNING THIRD-COUNTR Y UNDERT AKINGS
Ar ticle 40a
Sust ainability repor ts concer ning third-countr y under tak ings
1. A Member Stat e shall require that a subsidiar y under taking established in its terr it or y whose ultimate parent 
under taking is govern ed by the la w of a third countr y publish and make accessible a sustainability repor t co ver ing 
the inf or mation specifi ed in points (a)(iii) to (a)(v), points (b) to (f) and, where appropr iate, point (h) of Ar ticle 29a(2) 
at the group level of that ultimate third-countr y parent under taking.
The first subparagraph shall only apply to larg e subsidiar y under takings and to small and medium-sized subsidiar y 
under takings, excep t micro under takings, which are public-int erest entities as def ined in point (a) of point (1) of 
Ar ticle 2.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/57