--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 25 to Page 26
Word Range: 21779 - 23549
Word Count: 1,771
--------------------

[Page 25]
out in Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC in order to table draf t resolutions to be adopt ed in the g eneral meeting, 
requir ing that, fi rstly , an accredit ed third par ty that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or network as the 
statut or y auditor or audit fi r m car r ying out the statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain elements of the 
sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t be made av ailable to the g eneral meeting.
For under takings subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements introduced by this amending Directive and that 
do not f all within the scope of Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC, shareholders which represent more than 5 % of the 
votin g r ights or 5 % of the capital of the under taking, acting individually or collectively , should also be given the 
r ight to table a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the g eneral meeting, requir ing that, firstly , an accredite d third par ty 
that does not belong to the same audit fi r m or netw ork as the statut or y auditor or audit fir m car r ying out the 
statut or y audit prepare a repor t on cer tain elements of the sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t 
be made av ailable to the ge neral meeting.
(76) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member State s to ensure that each public-interest entity has an audit committee, and 
specifi es its tasks with regard to the statut or y audit. That audit committee should be assigned with cer tain tasks with 
regard to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Those tasks should include the obligation to inf or m the 
administrative or super visor y body of the public-inte rest entity of the outcome of the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, and to explain how the audit committee contr ibut ed to the integr ity of sustainability repor ting and what 
the role of the audit committee was in that process. Member Stat es should be able to allo w functions assigned to the 
audit committee relating to sustainability repor ting and relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting, to be 
performe d by the administrative or super visor y body as a whole or by a dedicated body established by the 
administrative or super visor y body .
(77) Directive 2006/43/EC contains requirements f or registration and oversight of third-countr y auditors and audit 
entities. T o ensure that a consistent framewor k exists f or the work of auditors in both the statutor y audit and the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting, it is necessar y to exte nd those requirements to the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting.
(78) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
37
) applies to statut or y auditors and 
audit fi r ms car r ying out statutor y audits of public-interest entities. T o ensure the independence of the statutor y 
auditor when car r ying out a statut or y audit, that Regulation establishes a limit concer ning the fees f or other ser vices 
that the statutor y auditor can obtain. It is impor tant to clar ify that the assurance of sustainability repor ting should 
not count in the calculation of that limit. In addition, Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 prohibits the provision of 
cer tain non-audit ser vices o ver cer tain per iods when the statut or y auditor is car r ying out the statutor y audit. 
Ser vices related to the preparation of sustainability repor ting, including any consulting ser vices, should also be 
considered as prohibit ed ser vices o ver the per iod prescr ibed in Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The prohibition of 
the provision of such ser vices should apply in all cases where the statutor y auditor car r ies out the statutor y audit of 
fi nancial stat ements.
T o ensure the independence of the statut or y auditor , cer tain non-audit ser vices should also be prohibit ed when the 
statut or y auditor is car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 requires 
statut or y auditors to repor t ir regular ities to the audite d entity and, under cer tain circumstances, to author ities 
designate d by the Member Stat es as responsible f or inv estigating such ir regular ities. Such oblig ation should also be 
extende d, as appropr iate, to statutor y auditors and audit fir ms as regards their w ork on the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting of public-interest entities.
(
37
) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Apr il 2014 on specific requirements regarding 
statutor y audit of public-int erest entities and repealing Commission Decision 2005/909/EC (OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 77).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/39

[Page 26]
(79) Directive 2004/109/EC assigns to national super visors the task of enf orcing compl iance with cor porat e repor ting 
requirements by under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the U nion. 
Ar ticle 4 of that Directive specifi es the content to be included in the annual fi nancial repor ts, but lacks an explicit 
referen ce to Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU, whic h require the preparation of a non-financial 
state ment and a consolidated non-fi nancial statement. As a consequence, national compet ent author ities of some 
Member Stat es hav e no leg al mandate to super vise those non-fi nancial statements, especially where those non- 
fi nancial statements are published in a separate repor t, outside of the annual fi nancial repor t, whic h Member States 
ma y cur rently allow . It is theref ore necessar y to inser t into Ar ticle 4(5) of Directive 2004/109/EC a referen ce to 
sustainability repor ting. It is also necessar y to require that the persons responsible within the issuer confir m in the 
annual fi nancial repor t that, to the best of their kno wledge, the manage ment repor t is prepared in accordance with 
the sustainability repor ting standards.
In addition, given the novel c haracter of the sustainability repor ting requirements, ESMA should issue guidelines f or 
national compet ent author ities to promote converg ent super vision of sustainability repor ting by issuers subject to 
Directive 2004/109/EC. Those guidelines should only apply to the super vision of under takings whose secur ities are 
admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the Union.
(80) In order to specify the requirements set out in this amending Directive, the po wer to adopt acts in accordance with 
Ar ticle 290 of the T reaty on the Functioning of the European U nion should be delega ted to the Commission in 
respect of establishing sustainability repor ting standards and establishing standards f or the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting. It is of par ticular im por tance that the Commission car r y out appropr iate consultations 
dur ing its preparatory w ork, including at exper t level, and that those consultations be conduct ed in accordance with 
the pr inciples laid down in the Inte r institutional Agreement of 13 Apr il 2016 on Bett er La w-Making (
38
) . In 
par ticular , to ensure equal par ticipation in the preparation of delegat ed acts, the European Parliament and the 
Council receive all documents at the same time as Member Stat es ’ exper ts, and their exper ts systematically hav e 
access to meetings of Commission exper t groups dealing with the preparation of delegat ed acts.
(81) The Commission should submit a repor t to the European P arliament and to the Council on the im plementation of 
this amending Directive, including, inte r alia: an assessment of the achi evement of the goals of this amending 
Directive, including the converg ence of repor ting practices between Member Stat es; an assessment of the number of 
small and medium-sized under takings using sustainability repor ting standards v oluntar ily ; an assessment of whether 
and how the scope of the repor ting requirements should be fur ther exte nded, in par ticular in relation to small and 
medium-sized under takings and to third-countr y under takings operating directly on the U nion inte r nal mark et 
without a subsidiar y under taking or a branch on the terr itory of the U nion; an assessment of the im plementation of 
the repor ting requirements on subsidiar y under takings and branches of third-countr y under takings introduced by 
this amending Directive, including an assessment of the number of third-countr y under takings whic h hav e a 
subsidiar y under taking or a branch subject to repor ting requirements in accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU; an 
assessment of the enf orcement mechanis m and of the relevant thresholds set out in Directive 2013/34/EU; an 
assessment of whether and how to ensure the accessibility f or people with disabilities to the sustainability repor ting 
published by under takings falling under the scope of this amending Directive.
The repor t on the im plementation of this amending Directive should be published by 30 Apr il 2029 and ever y three 
ye ars thereaf ter , and should be accompanied , if appropr iat e, by legislative proposals. By 31 December 2028 , the 
Commission should review and repor t on the level of concentration of the sustainability assurance mark et. The 
review should take into account the national regimes applicable to independent assurance ser vices provi ders and 
assess whether and to what extent such national regimes contr ibute to opening up the assurance market. By 
31 December 2028 , the Commission should assess possible legal measures to ensure suffic ient diversification of the 
sustainability assurance mark et and appropr iate sustainability repor ting quality . The repor t on the level of 
concentration of the sustainability assurance market should be transmitted to the European P arliament and the 
Council by 31 December 2028 and be accompan ied, if appropr iate, by legislative proposals.
(
38
) OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/40 16.12.2022