--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C18
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 5
Word Range: 4481 - 4873
Word Count: 393
--------------------

[Page 5]
(13) The Commission repor t of 21 Apr il 2021 on the review clauses in Directives 2013/34/EU, 2014/95/EU, 
and 2013/50/EU and its accompan ying fitness c heck on the EU framewor k f or public repor ting by companies 
(‘Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness c heck’) identified problems as to the 
effe ctiveness of Directive 2014/95/EU. There is signif icant evidence that many under takings do not disclose 
mater ial inf or mation on all major sustainability-related topics, including climate -related inf or mation such as all 
GHG emissions, and fa ctors that affect biodiversity . The repor t also identif ied the limited compar ability and 
reliability of sustainability inf or mation as signif icant problems. Ad ditionally , man y under takings from which users 
need sustainability inf or mation are not oblig ed to repor t such inf or mation. A ccording ly , there is a clear need f or a 
robust and aff ordable repor ting framework that is accompanied by eff ective auditing practices to ensure the 
reliability of data and av oid greenwashing and double counting.
(14) In the absence of policy action, the g ap between users’ inf or mation needs and the sustainability inf or mation 
provid ed by under takings is expect ed to grow . That g ap has signif icant nega tive consequences. Invest ors are unable 
to tak e suff icient account of sustainability-relate d r isks and oppor tunities in their investment decisions. The 
aggregation of multiple inv estment decisions that do not take adequate account of sustainability-related r isks has 
the poten tial to creat e system ic r isks that threaten financial stability . The European Central Bank (ECB) and 
internati onal org anisations, such as the Financial Stability Board, hav e dra wn att ention to those systemic r isks, in 
par ticular as regards climat e. Invest ors are also less able to c hannel fi nancial resources to under takings and 
economic activities that address and do not exacerbate social and environmental problems, which under mines the 
objectives of the Green Deal, the A ction Plan on Financing Sustainable Growth and the Par is Agreement. Non- 
governmental organisations, social par tners, communities affect ed by under takings’ activities, and other 
stake holders are less able to hold under takings accountable f or their impa cts on people and the environment. This 
creat es an accountability def icit and could lead to lower levels of citizen tr ust in businesses, which in tur n could 
hav e negativ e impa cts on the effi cient functioning of the social mark et econom y . The lack of generally accept ed 
metr ics and methods f or measur ing, valuing, and managing sustainability-related r isks is also an obstacle to the 
eff or ts of under takings to ensure that their business models and activities are sustainable. The lac k of sustainability 
inf or mation provi ded by under takings also limits the ability of stake holders, including civil society actors, trade 
unions and w orke rs’ representatives, to enter into dialogue with under takings on sustainability matt ers.
(15) The Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness c heck also identified a signif icant 
increase in requests to under takings f or inf or mation about sustainability matte rs aimed at addressing the existing 
inf or mation g ap between users’ inf or mation needs and the av ailable cor porate sustainability inf or mation. In 
addition, ongoing expectations on under takings to use a var iety of diffe rent framew ork s and standards are lik ely to 
continue and ma y even intensify as the value placed on sustainability inf or mation continues to gro w . In the absence 
of policy action to build consensus on the inf or mation that under takings should repor t, there will be signif icant 
increases in term s of cost and burden f or repor ting under takings and f or users of such inf or mation.
(16) The existing inf or mation gap makes it more like ly that individual Member Stat es will introduce increasing ly 
diverg ent national r ules or standards. Diff erent repor ting requirements in differ ent Member State s could create 
additional costs and compl exity f or under takings operating across borders and theref ore under mine the internal 
mark et, and could under mine the r ight of establishment and the free mov ement of capital across the U nion. Such 
differ ent repor ting requirements could also mak e repor te d inf or mation less comparable across borders, 
under mining the capital mark ets union.
(17) Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU apply to larg e under takings that are public-interest entities with an 
av erage number of emplo y ees in excess of 500, and to public-interest entities that are parent under takings of a larg e 
group with an av erage number of emplo y ees in excess of 500 on a consolidate d basis, respectively . In view of the 
gro wth of users’ needs f or sustainability inf or mation, additional catego r ies of under takings should be required to 
repor t sustainability inf or mation. It is theref ore appropr iate to require all larg e under takings and all under takings, 
excep t micro under takings, whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the U nion to repor t 
sustainability inf or mation. The provisions of this amending Directive amending Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 
2013/34/EU explicitly set out the scope of the repor ting requirements with reference to Ar ticles 2 and 3 of Directive 
2013/34/EU. Theref ore, they do not simplify or modify another requirement and the restr iction of exem ptions f or 
public-inte rest entities provided f or in Ar ticle 40 of Directive 2013/34/EU does not apply . In par ticular , public- 
inter est entities should not be treated as larg e under takings f or the pur poses of the application of the sustainability 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/19