--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C85
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 23
Word Range: 22065 - 22314
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 23]
(64) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules concer ning the statut or y audit of annual and consolidated fi nancial statements. 
It is necessar y to ensure that consistent r ules apply to the audit of fi nancial stat ements and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting by the statut or y auditor . Directive 2006/43/EC should apply where the assurance opinion 
on sustainability repor ting is expressed by a statut or y auditor or an audit fir m.
(65) The r ules on the approval and recognition of statutor y auditors and audit fir ms should allow statutor y auditor s to 
qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Member States should ensure that statutor y auditors who 
wish to qualify f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting ha ve the necessar y level of theoretical knowledg e of 
subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice.
Theref ore, statut or y auditors should complet e practical training of at least eight months in the assurance of annual 
and consolidated sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices, taking account of previous 
emplo yment exper ience. Howe ver , statut or y auditors that have already been appro ved or recognised in a Member 
State should continue to be allo wed to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Likewise, Member Stat es 
should ensure that natural persons who are undergoing the approval process at the dat e of application of the 
requirements f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting established by this amending Directive are not subject to 
those requirements, provid ed they complet e the process within the f ollo wing two ye ars. Member Stat es should, 
however , ensure that statut or y auditors appro ved within two y ears of the date of application of those requirements 
and who wish to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting acquire the necessar y knowledg e in 
sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability repor ting via continued profes sional education. Natural 
persons who decide to be appro ved only as statut or y auditors f or statutor y audit should be able to decide at a later 
point in time to qualify also f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. In order to do so, such persons should 
meet the necessar y requirements set out by Member Stat es to ensure that they also hav e the necessar y level of 
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such 
knowledg e in practice.
(66) It should be ensured that the requirements imposed on auditors as regar ds the statutor y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting they car r y out are consiste nt. Theref ore, there should be at least one designate d person who 
is actively inv olved in car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting (‘ke y sustainability par tner ’). When 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, statut or y auditors should be required to devot e sufficient time 
and assign sufficient resources and exper tise in order to car r y out their duties appropr iately . The client account 
record should specify the f ees c harged f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting and an assurance fi le should be 
creat ed to include inf or mation relat ed to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Where the same statutor y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to include the assurance file in the audit file. However , requirements imposed on statut or y auditors 
relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting should only apply to those statut or y auditors that car r y out the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(67) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms that car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting should hav e a high level of 
tec hnical and specialised exper tise in the fi eld of sustainability .
(68) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to put appropr iate r ules in place to av oid the fe es on the statut or y 
audit being inf luenced or det er mined by the provision of additional ser vices to the audited entity or being based on 
any f or m of contingenc y . That Directive also requires Member Stat es to ensure that statutor y auditors car r ying out 
statut or y audits compl y with the r ules on professional ethics, independence, objectivity , confidentiality and 
professiona l secrecy . For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iate that those r ules be exte nded to statutor y auditors 
car r ying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/37