--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C168
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 50 to Page 51
Word Range: 43983 - 44232
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 50]
(b) the f ollowi ng point is inser ted:
‘16a. “k ey sustainability par tner(s)” means:
(a) the statut or y auditor(s) designate d by an audit fi r m f or a par ticular assurance engag ement concer ning 
sustainability repor ting as being pr imar ily responsible f or car r ying out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting on behalf of the audit fi r m; or
(b) in the case of the assurance of consolidate d sustainability repor ting at least the statutor y auditor(s) 
designate d by an audit fir m as being pr imar ily responsible f or car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting at the level of the group and the statutor y auditor(s) designat ed as being 
pr imar ily responsible at the level of mater ial subsidiar ies; or
(c) the statut or y auditor(s) who sign(s) the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting ref er red to in 
Ar ticle 28a;’;
(c) the f ollowi ng points are added:
‘21. “sustainability repor ting” means sustainability repor ting as def ined in point (18) of Ar ticle 2 of Directive 
2013/34/EU;
22. “assurance of sustainability repor ting” means the perf or mance of procedures resulting in the opinion 
expressed by the statutor y auditor or audit fi r m in accordance with point (aa) of the second subparagraph 
of Ar ticle 34(1) and Ar ticle 34(2) of Directive 2013/34/EU;
23. “independent assurance ser vices provider” means a conf or mity assessment body accredit ed in accordance 
with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*) f or the specifi c 
conf or mity assessment activity ref er red to in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 34(1) of 
Directive 2013/34/EU.
_____________
(*) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the 
requirements f or accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).’;
(3) Ar ticle 6 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ Ar ticle 6
Educational qualif ications
1. Without prejudice to Ar ticle 11, a natural person ma y be approved to car r y out a statutor y audit only af ter 
hav ing attained university entrance or equivalent level, then compl eted a course of theoretical instr uction, undergone 
practical training and passed an examination of profe ssional compet ence of university final or equivalent examination 
level, organised or recognised by the Member State concer ned.
2. A natural person ma y , in addition to the approval to car r y out statutor y audits provid ed f or in paragraph 1 of 
this Ar ticle, be appro ved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting when the additional specifi c 
requirements of Ar ticle 7(2), Ar ticle 8(3), the second subparagraph of Ar ticle 10(1) and the f our th subparagraph of 
Ar ticle 14(2) of this Directive are met.
3. The compe tent author ities refer red to in Ar ticle 32 shall cooperate with each other with a view to achi eving a 
conver gence of the requirements set out in this Ar ticle. When engaging in such cooperation, those compet ent 
author ities shall take into account developments in auditing and in the audit profes sion and, in par ticular , 
conver gence that has already been achieve d by the profess ion. They shall cooperate with the Committ ee of European 
Aud iting Oversight Bodies (CEA OB) and the compe tent author ities refe r red to in Ar ticle 20 of Regulation (EU) 
No 537/2014 in so f ar as such converg ence relates to the statut or y audit and assurance of sustainability repor ting of 
public-inte rest entities.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/64 16.12.2022

[Page 51]
(4) Ar ticle 7 is replaced by the f ollowi ng:
‘ Ar ticle 7
Exa mination of professional competence
1. The examination of professional compet ence refer red to in Ar ticle 6 shall guarant ee the necessar y level of 
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to statut or y audit and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice. At 
least par t of that examination shall be wr itt en.
2. In order f or the statutor y auditor to also be approved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
examination of professional compet ence refer red to in Ar ticle 6 shall guarantee the necessar y level of theoretical 
knowle dge of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in 
practice. At least par t of that examination shall be wr itt en.’;
(5) in Ar ticle 8, the f ollowi ng paragraph is added:
‘3. In order f or the statut or y auditor to also be appro ved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
test of theoretical kno wledge refe r red to in paragraph 1 shall also cover at least the f ollowi ng subjects:
(a) legal requirements and standards relating to the preparation of annual and consolidat ed sustainability repor ting;
(b) sustainability analysis;
(c) due diligence processes with regard to sustainability matte rs;
(d) legal requirements and assurance standards f or the sustainability repor ting refe r red to in Ar ticle 26a.’;
(6) in Ar ticle 10(1), the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘In order f or the statutor y auditor or the trainee to also be approved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting, at least eight months of the practical training ref er red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall be on the 
assurance of annual and consolidated sustainability repor ting or on other sustainability-related ser vices.’;
(7) Ar ticle 12 is replaced by the f ollowing:
‘ Ar ticle 12
Combination of practical training and theoretical instr uction
1. Member States ma y provid e that per iods of theoretical instr uction in the subjects refe r red to in Ar ticle 8(1) 
and (2) shall count to wards the per iods of profes sional activity refer red to in Ar ticle 11, provided that such 
instr uction is attest ed by an examination recognised by the Member State . Such instr uction shall not last less than 
one ye ar , nor ma y it reduce the per iod of profes sional activity by more than f our ye ars.
2. The per iod of professional activity and practical training shall not be shor ter than the course of theoretical 
instr uction tog ether with the practical training required under the f irst subparagraph of Ar ticle 10(1).’;
(8) in Ar ticle 14(2), the f ollowi ng subparagraph is added:
‘In order f or the statut or y auditor to also be approved to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the 
apti tude test refe r red to in the fi rst subparagraph shall cover the statut or y auditor ’s adequate kno wledge of the la ws 
and regulations of the host Member Stat e in so f ar as it is relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/65