--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 19 to Page 20
Word Range: 16290 - 18245
Word Count: 1,956
--------------------

[Page 19]
(54) T o meet the inf or mation needs of users in a timely manner , and in par ticular given the urgency to meet the 
inf or mation needs of f inancial mark et par ticipants subject to the requirements laid down in the delegat ed acts 
adopt ed pursuant to Ar ticle 4(6) and (7) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, the Commission should adopt a first set of 
sustainability repor ting standards by means of delegat ed acts by 30 June 2023 . That set of sustainability repor ting 
standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose with regar d to all repor ting areas and 
sustainability matte rs, and that fi nancial mark et par ticipants need to compl y with the disclosure obligations laid 
down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. The Commission should adopt a second set of sustainability repor ting 
standards by means of delega ted acts by 30 June 2024 , specifying compl ementar y inf or mation that under takings 
should disclose about sustainability matte rs and repor ting areas, where necessar y , and inf or mation that is specif ic to 
the sector in whic h an under taking operates. The Commission should review those sustainability repor ting 
standards, including the sustainability repor ting standards f or small and medium-sized under takings, ever y three 
ye ars to take account of relevant developments, including the development of intern ational standards.
(55) Directive 2013/34/EU does not require that under takings provid e their management repor ts in a digital f or mat, 
which hinders the findability and usability of the repor ted inf or mation. Users of sustainability inf or mation 
increasing ly expect such inf or mation to be fi ndable, compar able and mach ine-readable in digital f or mats. Member 
State s should be able to require that under takings subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements of Directive 
2013/34/EU make their manag ement repor ts av ailable on their website s, free of charg e to the public. Digitalisation 
creat es oppor tunities to exploit inf or mation more efficiently and holds the poten tial f or signif icant cost savings f or 
both users and under takings. Digitalisation also enables the centralisation at Union and Member State level of data 
in an open and accessible f or mat that f acilitates reading and allo ws f or the comparison of data. U nder takings should 
theref ore be required to prepare their manag ement repor t in the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in Ar ticle 3 of 
Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 (
33
) , and to mark up their sustainability repor ting, including the 
disclosures required by Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, in accordance with the electronic repor ting f or mat 
specifi ed in Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 once that is det er mined.
A digital tax onomy f or the Union sustainability repor ting standards will be necessar y to allo w the repor ted 
inf or mation to be tagg ed in accordance with those sustainability repor ting standards. These requirements should 
fe ed into the w ork on digitalisation announced by the Commission in its Communication of 19 Febr uar y 2020
entitled ‘ A European strategy f or data’ and in its Communication of 24 Sept ember 2020 entitled ‘Digital Finance 
Strateg y f or the EU’. These requirements w ould also compl ement the creation of a European sing le access point 
(ESAP) f or public cor porate inf or mation as en visaged in the Commission’s Communication of 24 Sept ember 2020
entitled ‘ A Capital Mark ets Union f or people and businesses - new action plan’ in which the need to pro vide 
comparab le inf or mation in a digital f or mat is also considered.
(56) T o allo w f or the inclusion of the repor te d sustainability inf or mation in the ESA P , Member Stat es should ensure that 
under takings whose secur ities are not admitt ed to trading on a regulated market in the Uni on publish their 
manage ment repor t, including sustainability repor ting, in the electronic repor ting f or mat specifi ed in Ar ticle 3 of 
Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815.
(57) Ar ticle 19a(4) of Directive 2013/34/EU enables Member Stat es to exem pt under takings from including in the 
manage ment repor t the non-f inancial state ment required under Ar ticle 19a(1) of that Directive. Member Stat es are 
allowe d to do so where the under taking concer ned prepares a separate repor t that is published tog ether with the 
manage ment repor t in accordance with Ar ticle 30 of that Directive, or where that repor t is made publicly av ailable 
on the under taking’s website within a reasonable per iod of time not exceed ing 6 months af ter the balance sheet 
date , and is ref er red to in the managemen t repor t. The same possibility exists f or the consolidated non-financial 
state ment refer red to in Directive 2013/34/EU. T wenty Member Stat es hav e used that op tion. The possibility of 
publishing a separate repor t hinders, however , the availability of inf or mation that connects fi nancial inf or mation 
and inf or mation on sustainability matters. It also hinders the findability and accessibility of inf or mation f or users, 
especially invest ors, who are inte rested in both f inancial and sustainability inf or mation. P ossible differ ent 
publication times f or fi nancial and sustainability inf or mation exacerbate that problem. Publication in a separate 
(
33
) Commission Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815 of 17 December 2018 supplementing Directive 2004/109/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulat or y tec hnical standards on the specificatio n of a sing le electronic repor ting 
f or mat (OJ L 143, 29.5.2019, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/33

[Page 20]
repor t can also give the impression, internal ly and extern ally , that sustainability inf or mation belongs to a cate gor y of 
less relevant inf or mation, which can impact negat ively on the perceived reliability of the inf or mation. Unde r takings 
should theref ore repor t sustainability inf or mation in a clearly identif iable dedicat ed section of the management 
repor t and Member Stat es should no long er be allowed to exe mp t under takings from the oblig ation to include in 
the manage ment repor t inf or mation on sustainability matt ers.
Such oblig ation w ould also help to clar ify the role of national compet ent author ities in super vising sustainability 
repor ting, as par t of the management repor t prepared in accordance with Directive 2004/109/EC. In addition, 
under takings required to repor t sustainability inf or mation should in no case be exem pt ed from the oblig ation to 
publish the manag ement repor t, as it is impor tant to ensure that sustainability inf or mation is publicly av ailable.
(58) Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires under takings whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulat ed 
mark et in the Union to include a cor porat e governance state ment in their management repor t, whic h has to 
contain, among other inf or mation, a descr ip tion of the diversity policy applied by the under taking in relation to its 
administrative, manage ment and super visor y bodies. Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU leav es f lexibility to 
under takings to decide what aspects of diversity the y repor t on. It does not explicitly oblig e under takings to include 
inf or mation on an y par ticular aspect of diversity . In order to progress to wards a more gender -balanced par ticipation 
in economic decision-making, it is necessar y to ensure that under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on 
a regulated market in the U nion alwa ys repor t on their gender diversity policies and the implementation thereof. 
However , to av oid an unnecessar y administrative burden, such under takings should hav e the possibility of 
repor ting some of the inf or mation required by Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU alongside other sustainability 
inf or mation. If they decide to do so, the cor porat e govern ance statement should include a referen ce to the 
under taking’s sustainability repor ting, and the inf or mation required under Ar ticle 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU 
should remain subject to the assurance requirements of the cor porat e go ver nance stat ement.
(59) Ar ticle 33 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires Member Stat es to ensure that the members of the administrative, 
manage ment and super visor y bodies of an under taking hav e collective responsibility f or ensur ing that the annual 
fi nancial statemen ts, the consolidat ed fi nancial statements, the manag ement repor t, the consolidate d management 
repor t, the cor porat e go ver nance stat ement and the consolidated cor porate govern ance statement are dra wn up and 
published in accordance with the requirements of that Directive. That collective responsibility should be extende d to 
the digitalisation requirements laid down in Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815, to the requirement to compl y 
with U nion sustainability repor ting standards and to the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting.
(60) The assurance profession distinguishes between limite d assurance engag ements and reasonable assurance 
engag ements. The conclusion of a limited assurance engag ement is usually provi ded in a negativ e f or m of 
expression by stating that no matt er has been identified by the practitioner to conclude that the subject matt er is 
mater ially misstated. In a limite d assurance enga gement, the auditor performs fe wer tes ts than in a reasonable 
assurance engag ement. The amount of w ork f or a limited assurance eng agement is theref ore less than f or a 
reasonable assurance engag ement. The amount of w ork in a reasonable assurance engag ement entails extensi ve 
procedures including consideration of intern al controls of the repor ting under taking and substantive tes ting, and is 
theref ore significantly greater than in a limite d assurance enga gement.
The conclusion of a reasonable assurance engag ement is usually pro vided in a positive f or m of expression and results 
in provid ing an opinion on the measurement of the subject matte r ag ainst previously defined cr it er ia. Directive 
2013/34/EU requires Member Stat es to ensure that the statut or y auditor or audit fir m c hecks whether the non- 
fi nancial state ment or the separate repor t has been provid ed. It does not require that an independent pro vider of 
assurance ser vices ver ify the inf or mation, although it allows Member States to require such ver ification where they 
so wish. The absence of an assurance requirement concer ning sustainability repor ting, in contrast to the 
requirement f or the statutor y auditor to car r y out statutor y audits based on a reasonable assurance engag ement, 
w ould threaten the credibility of the sustainability inf or mation disclosed, thus failing to meet the needs of the 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/34 16.12.2022