--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C99
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 26
Word Range: 25589 - 25838
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 26]
(79) Directive 2004/109/EC assigns to national super visors the task of enf orcing compl iance with cor porat e repor ting 
requirements by under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the U nion. 
Ar ticle 4 of that Directive specifi es the content to be included in the annual fi nancial repor ts, but lacks an explicit 
referen ce to Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU, whic h require the preparation of a non-financial 
state ment and a consolidated non-fi nancial statement. As a consequence, national compet ent author ities of some 
Member Stat es hav e no leg al mandate to super vise those non-fi nancial statements, especially where those non- 
fi nancial statements are published in a separate repor t, outside of the annual fi nancial repor t, whic h Member States 
ma y cur rently allow . It is theref ore necessar y to inser t into Ar ticle 4(5) of Directive 2004/109/EC a referen ce to 
sustainability repor ting. It is also necessar y to require that the persons responsible within the issuer confir m in the 
annual fi nancial repor t that, to the best of their kno wledge, the manage ment repor t is prepared in accordance with 
the sustainability repor ting standards.
In addition, given the novel c haracter of the sustainability repor ting requirements, ESMA should issue guidelines f or 
national compet ent author ities to promote converg ent super vision of sustainability repor ting by issuers subject to 
Directive 2004/109/EC. Those guidelines should only apply to the super vision of under takings whose secur ities are 
admitte d to trading on a regulated mark et in the Union.
(80) In order to specify the requirements set out in this amending Directive, the po wer to adopt acts in accordance with 
Ar ticle 290 of the T reaty on the Functioning of the European U nion should be delega ted to the Commission in 
respect of establishing sustainability repor ting standards and establishing standards f or the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting. It is of par ticular im por tance that the Commission car r y out appropr iate consultations 
dur ing its preparatory w ork, including at exper t level, and that those consultations be conduct ed in accordance with 
the pr inciples laid down in the Inte r institutional Agreement of 13 Apr il 2016 on Bett er La w-Making (
38
) . In 
par ticular , to ensure equal par ticipation in the preparation of delegat ed acts, the European Parliament and the 
Council receive all documents at the same time as Member Stat es ’ exper ts, and their exper ts systematically hav e 
access to meetings of Commission exper t groups dealing with the preparation of delegat ed acts.
(81) The Commission should submit a repor t to the European P arliament and to the Council on the im plementation of 
this amending Directive, including, inte r alia: an assessment of the achi evement of the goals of this amending 
Directive, including the converg ence of repor ting practices between Member Stat es; an assessment of the number of 
small and medium-sized under takings using sustainability repor ting standards v oluntar ily ; an assessment of whether 
and how the scope of the repor ting requirements should be fur ther exte nded, in par ticular in relation to small and 
medium-sized under takings and to third-countr y under takings operating directly on the U nion inte r nal mark et 
without a subsidiar y under taking or a branch on the terr itory of the U nion; an assessment of the im plementation of 
the repor ting requirements on subsidiar y under takings and branches of third-countr y under takings introduced by 
this amending Directive, including an assessment of the number of third-countr y under takings whic h hav e a 
subsidiar y under taking or a branch subject to repor ting requirements in accordance with Directive 2013/34/EU; an 
assessment of the enf orcement mechanis m and of the relevant thresholds set out in Directive 2013/34/EU; an 
assessment of whether and how to ensure the accessibility f or people with disabilities to the sustainability repor ting 
published by under takings falling under the scope of this amending Directive.
The repor t on the im plementation of this amending Directive should be published by 30 Apr il 2029 and ever y three 
ye ars thereaf ter , and should be accompanied , if appropr iat e, by legislative proposals. By 31 December 2028 , the 
Commission should review and repor t on the level of concentration of the sustainability assurance mark et. The 
review should take into account the national regimes applicable to independent assurance ser vices provi ders and 
assess whether and to what extent such national regimes contr ibute to opening up the assurance market. By 
31 December 2028 , the Commission should assess possible legal measures to ensure suffic ient diversification of the 
sustainability assurance mark et and appropr iate sustainability repor ting quality . The repor t on the level of 
concentration of the sustainability assurance market should be transmitted to the European P arliament and the 
Council by 31 December 2028 and be accompan ied, if appropr iate, by legislative proposals.
(
38
) OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/40 16.12.2022