--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 3 to Page 4
Word Range: 1583 - 3400
Word Count: 1,818
--------------------

[Page 3]
(3) In its Communication of 17 June 2019 entitled ‘Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting: Supplement on repor ting 
climat e-related inf or mation’ (‘Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation’), the Commission highlighted the 
benefits f or companies of repor ting on climate-relat ed inf or mation par ticularly by increasing awareness and 
understanding of climate -related r isks and oppor tunities within the compan y , diversifying the inve stor base, 
creating a lo wer cost of capital and impro ving constr uctive dialogue with all stakeho lders. Fur ther more, diversity on 
compan y boards might hav e an inf luence on decision-making, cor porate governance and resilience.
(4) In its conclusions of 5 December 2019 on the deepening of the Capital Mark ets Union, the Council stressed the 
imp or tance of reliable, comparable and relevant inf or mation on sustainability r isks , oppor tunities and im pacts, and 
called on the Commission to consider the development of a European non-fi nancial repor ting standard.
(5) In its resolution of 29 Ma y 2018 on sustainable finance (
14
) , the European Parliament called f or the fur ther 
development of non-financial repor ting requirements in the framework of Directive 2013/34/EU. In its resolution 
of 17 December 2020 on sustainable cor porate governance (
15
) , the European P arliament welcomed the 
Commission’s commitment to review Directive 2013/34/EU and expressed the need to set up a compreh ensive 
U nion framework on non-fi nancial repor ting that contains mandatory U nion non-fi nancial repor ting standards. 
The European P arliament called f or the expansion of the scope of the repor ting requirements to additional 
catego r ies of under takings and f or the introduction of an audit requirement.
(6) In its resolution of 25 Sept ember 2015 entitled ‘ T ransf or ming our w orld: the 2030 Agen da f or Sustainable 
Development’ (the ‘2030 Agen da’) the Unit ed Nations (UN) General Assembly adopt ed a new g lobal sustainable 
development framew ork . The 2030 Agen da has at its core the UN Sustainable Development Goals (‘SDGs’ ) and 
co vers the three dimensions of sustainability : economic, social and en vironmental. The Commission 
Communication of 22 No vember 2016 entitled ‘Next ste ps f or a sustainable European future: European action f or 
sustainability’ linked the SDGs to the U nion policy framew ork to ensure that all Union actions and policy initiatives, 
both within and outside the U nion, take those goals on board at the outset. In its conclusions of 20 June 2017 on ‘ A 
sustainable European future: The EU response to the 2030 Agenda f or Sustainable Development’, the Council 
conf ir med the commitment of the Union and its Member Stat es to the implementation of the 2030 Agen da in a 
full, coherent, comprehensive, integrat ed and effective manner , in close cooperation with par tners and other 
stake holders.
(7) Directive 2014/95/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council (
16
) amended Directive 2013/34/EU as regards 
disclosure of non-fi nancial inf or mation by cer tain larg e under takings and groups. Directive 2014/95/EU introduced 
a requirement on under takings to repor t inf or mation on, as a minimum, en vironmental, social and emplo y ee 
matte rs, respect f or human r ights, anti-cor r uption and br iber y matters. With regard to those topics, Directive 
2014/95/EU required under takings to disclose inf or mation under the f ollowi ng repor ting areas: business model; 
policies, including due diligence processes; the outcome of those policies; r isks and r isk management; and ke y 
performa nce indicator s relevant to the business.
(8) Many stak eholders consider the term ‘non-financial’ to be inaccurate , in par ticular because it im plies that the 
inf or mation in question has no financia l relevance. Increasing ly , however , such inf or mation does have financial 
relevance. Many organisations, initiatives and practitioners in the field of sustainability repor ting refer to 
‘sustainability inf or mation’. It is theref ore preferable to use the term ‘sustainability inf or mation’ in place of ‘non- 
fi nancial inf or mation’. Directive 2013/34/EU should theref ore be amended to take account of that chang e in 
term inology .
(
14
) OJ C 76, 9.3.2020, p. 23.
(
15
) OJ C 445, 29.10.2021, p. 94.
(
16
) Directive 2014/95/EU of the European P arliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards 
disclosure of non-fi nancial and diversity inf or mation by cer tain larg e under takings and groups (OJ L 330, 15.11.2014, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/17

[Page 4]
(9) If under takings car r ied out better sustainability repor ting, the ultimate beneficiar ies w ould be individual citizens and 
sav ers, including trade unions and w orke rs ’ representatives who would be adequate ly inf or med and theref ore able to 
bette r engag e in social dialogue. Sav ers who want to inve st sustainably will hav e the oppor tunity to do so, while all 
citizens w ould benefi t from a stable, sustainable and inclusive economic system . T o realise such benefits, the 
sustainability inf or mation disclosed in the annual repor ts of under takings first has to reach two pr imar y groups of 
users. The first group of users consists of invest ors, including asset managers, who want to bette r understand the 
r isks and oppor tunities that sustainability issues pose f or their inv estments and the impact s of those investments on 
people and the en vironment. The second group of users consists of civil society actors , including non-go ver nmental 
org anisations and social par tners, which wish to bett er hold under takings to account f or their im pacts on people and 
the environment. Other stak eholders might also make use of sustainability inf or mation disclosed in annual repor ts, 
in par ticular to f oster comparab ility across and within mark et sectors .
The business par tners of under takings, including custome rs, might rely on sustainability inf or mation to understand 
and, where necessar y , repor t on their sustainability r isks and impacts throughout their own value chains. P olicy 
make rs and en vironmental agencies can use such inf or mation, in par ticular on an aggreg ate basis, to monitor 
en vironmental and social trends, to contr ibut e to en vironmental accounts, and to inf or m public policy . Few 
individual citizens and consumers directly consult under takings’ annual repor ts, but the y might use sustainability 
inf or mation indirectly , f or exam ple, when consider ing the advice or opinions of fi nancial advisers or non- 
governmental orga nisations. Many inve stors and asset managers purchase sustainability inf or mation from third- 
par ty data providers, who collect inf or mation from var ious sources, including public cor porat e repor ts.
(10) The mark et f or sustainability inf or mation is rapidly gro wing, and the role of third-par ty data provid ers is gainin g in 
imp or tance given the new oblig ations that inve stors and asset manage rs need to fulfil. With the increased av ailability 
of disaggregat ed data, sustainability inf or mation should come at a more reasonable cost. The amendments to 
Directive 2013/34/EU provided f or in this amending Directive are expecte d to increase the comparability of data 
and har monise standards. It is expecte d that the practices of third-par ty data providers will impro ve and that 
exper tise will grow in this area, with a poten tial f or job creation.
(11) There has been a ver y significant increase in demand f or cor porate sustainability inf or mation in recent years, 
especially on the par t of the inve stment community . That increase in demand is dr iven by the c hanging nature of 
r isks to under takings and growing invest or awar eness of the financia l imp lications of those r isks . That is especially 
the case f or climat e-related financial r isks . There is also gro wing awar eness of the r isks and oppor tunities f or 
under takings and f or investments resulting from other en vironmental issues, such as biodiversity loss, and from 
health and social issues, including child labour and f orced labour . The increase in demand f or sustainability 
inf or mation is also dr iven by the growth in inv estment products that explicitly seek to meet cer tain sustainability 
standards or achi eve cer tain sustainability objectives and to ensure coherence with the ambition of the P ar is 
Agreement under the U nited Nations Framew ork Conv ention on Climate Change adopt ed on 12 December 2015
(the ‘Pari s Agreement ’), the UN Conv ention on Biological Diversity and U nion policies. P ar t of that increase is the 
logical consequence of previously adopt ed Union legislation, notably Regulations (EU) 2019/2088 and (EU) 
2020/852. Some of that increase would have happened in an y case, due to fa st-changing citizen aware ness, 
consumer preferences and mark et practices. The CO VID-19 pandemic has fur ther accelerat ed the increase in users’ 
inf or mation needs, in par ticular as it has exposed the vulnerabilities of work ers and under takings’ value chains. 
Inf or mation on en vironmental im pacts is also relevant in the context of mitigating future pandemics, with human 
disturbance of ecosystems being increasing ly linked to the occur rence and spread of diseases.
(12) U nder takings themselves stand to benefit from car r ying out high-quality repor ting on sustainability matt ers. The 
gro wth in the number of investment products that aim to pursue sustainability objectives means that good 
sustainability repor ting can enhance an under taking’s access to financial capital. Sustainability repor ting can help 
under takings to identify and manag e their o wn r isks and oppor tunities relat ed to sustainability matt ers. It can 
provid e a basis f or bett er dialogue and communication between under takings and their stakeholders, and can help 
under takings to impro ve their reputation. Moreover , a consistent basis f or sustainability repor ting in the f or m of 
sustainability repor ting standards w ould lead to relevant and sufficient inf or mation being provi ded and thus 
signif icantly decrease ad hoc requests f or inf or mation.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/18 16.12.2022