--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 9213 - 10988
Word Count: 1,776
--------------------

[Page 11]
end to the pr incipal actual and poten tial adverse im pacts connected with their activities and identifies how 
under takings address those adverse im pacts. Im pacts connected with an under taking’s activities include im pacts 
directly caused by the under taking, impa cts to which the under taking contr ibut es, and impacts which are other wise 
linked to the under taking’s value c hain. The due dilig ence process concer ns the whole value chain of the under taking 
including its o wn operations, its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply c hains. In line with 
the UN Guiding Pr inciples on Business and Human Rights, an actual or poten tial adverse im pact is to be considered 
a pr incipal impa ct where it ranks among the greate st impacts connected with the under taking’s activities based on: 
the grav ity of the impact on people or the envi ronment ; the number of individuals that are or could be affe cted, or 
the scale of damage to the en vironment ; and the ease with which the har m could be remediated , restor ing the 
en vironment or affect ed people to their pr ior state.
(32) Directive 2013/34/EU does not require the disclosure of inf or mation on intangible resources other than intangible 
assets recognised in the balance sheet. It is widely recognised that inf or mation on intangible assets and other 
intangible f actors, including inte r nally generat ed intangible resources, is under repor ted, im peding the proper 
assessment of an under taking’s development, performa nce and position, and the monitori ng of inve stments. T o 
enable inv estors to bette r understand the increasing g ap between the accounting book value of man y under takings 
and their market valuation, which is obser ved in man y sectors of the economy , adequate repor ting on intangible 
resources should be required of all larg e under takings and all under takings, excep t micro-under takings, whose 
secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d market in the Uni on. Nonetheless, cer tain inf or mation on 
intangible resources is intr insic to sustainability matt ers, and should theref ore be par t of sustainability repor ting. 
For examp le, inf or mation about em plo ye es ’ skills, compet ences, exper ience, lo yalty to the under taking and 
motivation f or impro ving processes, goods and ser vices, is sustainability inf or mation rega rding social matters that 
could also be considered as inf or mation on intangible resources. Like wise, inf or mation about the quality of the 
relationships between the under taking and its stak eholders, including customer s, suppliers and communities 
affe cted by the activities of the under taking, is sustainability inf or mation relevant to social or governance matte rs 
that could also be considered as inf or mation on intangible resources. Such examples illustrate how in some cases it 
is not possible to distinguish inf or mation on intangible resources from inf or mation on sustainability matt ers.
(33) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU do not specify whether the inf or mation to be repor ted is 
to be f or ward-looking or inf or mation about past performa nce. There is cur rently a lac k of f or ward-looking 
disclosures, which users of sustainability inf or mation especially value. Ar ticles 19a and 29a of Directive 
2013/34/EU should theref ore specify that the sustainability inf or mation repor ted is to include f or ward-looking and 
retrospective inf or mation and both qualitative and quantitative inf or mation. Inf or mation should be based on 
conclusive scientific evidence where appropr iat e. Inf or mation should also be har monized, comparable and based 
on unif or m indicators where appropr iate, while allowing f or repor ting that is specif ic to individual under takings 
and does not endange r the commercial position of the under taking. Repor ted sustainability inf or mation should also 
take into account shor t-, medium- and long-t er m time hor izons and contain inf or mation about the under taking’s 
whole value chain, including its own operations, its products and ser vices, its business relationships and its supply 
c hain, as appropr iat e. Inf or mation about the under taking’s whole value chain w ould include inf or mation relat ed to 
its value c hain within the Uni on and inf or mation that covers third countr ies if the under taking’s value c hain extends 
outside the Union. For the fi rst three yea rs of the application of the measures to be adop ted by the Member Stat es in 
accordance with this amending Directive, in the event that not all the necessar y inf or mation regar ding the value 
c hain is av ailable, the under taking should explain the eff or ts made to obtain the inf or mation about its value c hain, 
the reasons why that inf or mation could not be obtained, and the plans of the under taking to obtain such 
inf or mation in the future.
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/25

[Page 12]
(34) It is not the objective of this amending Directive to require under takings to disclose intellectual capital, intellectual 
proper ty , know-ho w or the results of innovati on that w ould qualify as trade secrets as defined in Directive (EU) 
2016/943 of the European P arliament and of the Council (
22
) . Repor ting requirements pro vided f or in this 
amending Directive should theref ore be without prejudice to Directive (EU) 2016/943.
(35) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to include in their non-financial 
repor ting refe rences to, and additional explanations of, amounts repor ted in the annual fi nancial statements. Those 
Ar ticles do not, however , require under takings to make ref erences to other inf or mation in the management repor t 
or to add additional explanations to that inf or mation. Thus, there is cur rently a lack of consist ency between non- 
fi nancial inf or mation repor ted and the rest of the inf or mation disclosed in the management repor t. It is necessar y 
to la y down clear requirements in this regard.
(36) Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to provid e a clear and reasoned 
explanation f or not pursuing policies in relation to one or more of the matt ers list ed in those Ar ticles, where the 
under taking does not do so. The differ ent treatment of disclosures on the policies that under takings ma y hav e, 
compare d to the other repor ting areas included in those Ar ticles, has created confusion among repor ting 
under takings and has not helped to im prove the quality of the repor ted inf or mation. Theref ore, there is no need to 
maintain such diff erent treatment of policies in that Directive. The sustainability repor ting standards should 
det er mine what inf or mation needs to be disclosed in relation to each of the repor ting areas mentioned in Ar ticles 
19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this amending Directive.
(37) U nder takings that fall under the scope of Ar ticle 19a(1) and Ar ticle 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU ma y rely on 
national, Union-based or international repor ting frameworks, and where they do so, they hav e to specify which 
framewor k s they hav e relied upon. However , Directive 2013/34/EU does not require under takings to use a 
common repor ting framewor k or standard, and it does not prevent under takings from choosing not to use an y 
repor ting framew ork or standards at all. As required by Ar ticle 2 of Directive 2014/95/EU, on 5 July 2017 , the 
Commission adopt ed a Communication entitled ‘Guidelines on non-financial repor ting (methodology f or repor ting 
non-fi nancial inf or mation)’ (‘Guidelines on non-f inancial repor ting’), provi ding f or non-binding guidelines f or 
under takings that fa ll under the scope of that Directive.
On 17 June 2019 , the Commission adopt ed its Guidelines on repor ting climat e-relat ed inf or mation, containing 
additional guidelines, specifi cally on repor ting climate -related inf or mation. Those Guidelines on repor ting climat e- 
relat ed inf or mation explicitly incor porat ed the recommendations of the T ask Force on Climat e-related Financial 
Disclosures. A vailable evidence indicates that the Guidelines on non-fi nancial repor ting did not hav e a signif icant 
imp act on the quality of non-fi nancial repor ting by under takings under the scope of Ar ticles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU. The volun tar y nature of the guidelines means that under takings are free to decide whether 
to apply them or not. The guidelines can theref ore not ensure on their own the comparab ility of the inf or mation 
disclosed by diff erent under takings, or the disclosure of all inf or mation that users of that inf or mation consider 
relevant. That is why there is a need f or mandatory common sustainability repor ting standards to ensure that 
inf or mation is compara ble and that all relevant inf or mation is disclosed. Building on the double mater iality 
pr inciple, standards should co ver all inf or mation that is mater ial to users of that inf or mation. Common 
sustainability repor ting standards are also necessar y to enable the assurance and digitalisation of sustainability 
repor ting and to f acilitate its super vision and enf orcement.
The development of mandatory common sustainability repor ting standards is necessar y to reach a situation in whic h 
sustainability inf or mation has a status compara ble to that of fi nancial inf or mation. The adoptio n of sustainability 
repor ting standards by means of delegat ed acts would ensure har monised sustainability repor ting across the Union. 
(
22
) Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undisclosed know-ho w 
and business inf or mation (trade secrets) again st their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016, p. 1).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/26 16.12.2022