--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C90
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 24
Word Range: 23315 - 23564
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 24]
(69) In order to provid e f or unif or m assurance practices and high-quality assurance of sustainability repor ting across the 
U nion, the Commission should be em powered to adopt sustainability assurance standards by means of delega ted 
acts. Member States should be given the possibility of applying national assurance standards, procedures or 
requirements, as long as the Commission has not adopt ed an assurance standard by means of delegat ed acts 
co ver ing the same subject matt er . Such assurance standards should set out the procedures that the auditor is to 
perform in order to dra w its conclusions on the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Theref ore, the Commission 
should adop t assurance standards f or limited assurance by means of delegat ed acts bef ore 1 October 2026 . With a 
view to f acilitating the har monisation of the assurance of sustainability repor ting across Member State s, the CEA OB 
should be encouraged to adopt non-binding guidelines to set out the procedures to be performe d when expressing 
an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, pending the adop tion by the Commission of an assurance 
standard cover ing the same subject matter .
(70) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out r ules on the statut or y audit of a group of under takings. Similar r ules should be set out 
f or the assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting.
(71) Directive 2006/43/EC requires statutor y auditors or audit fi r ms to present the results of their statut or y audit in an 
audit repor t. Similar r ules should be set out f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting. The results of the 
assurance of sustainability repor ting should be presented in an assurance repor t. Where the same statut or y auditor 
car r ies out the statut or y audit of annual fi nancial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should 
be possible to present the inf or mation about the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the audit repor t.
(72) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to set up a system of quality assurance review of statut or y auditors 
and audit fi r ms. T o ensure that quality assurance reviews also take place f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
and that the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews hav e appropr iat e professional education and relevant 
exper ience in sustainability repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting, that requirement to set up a 
system of quality assurance review should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. As a transitional 
measure, until 31 December 2025 , the persons who car r y out quality assurance reviews of the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting should be exe mp te d from the requirement to have relevant exper ience in sustainability 
repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d ser vices.
(73) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member Stat es to hav e in place an investig ations and sanctions regime f or statut or y 
auditors and audit fir ms car r ying out statutor y audits. That Directive also requires Member States to organise an 
effe ctive syste m of public o versight, and to ensure that regulatory ar rangements f or public oversight system s per mit 
effe ctive cooperation at U nion level in respect of Member States’ oversight activities. Such requirements should be 
extende d to statutor y auditors and audit fir ms that conduct assurance of sustainability repor ting in order to ensure 
the consistency of the investig ations, sanctions and o versight framew ork s set up f or the auditor ’s w ork in the 
statut or y audit and the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(74) Directive 2006/43/EC contains r ules on the appointment and dismissal of statut or y auditor s and audit fir ms 
car r ying out statutor y audits. Those r ules should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting to ensure 
the consistency of the r ules imp osed on auditors as regards their w ork on the statut or y audit and the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting.
(75) Pursuant to Ar ticle 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council (
36
) , Member Stat es are 
required to ensure that shareholders of under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a regulated mark et 
in the Union, acting individually or collectively , hav e the r ight to put it ems on the agenda of the g eneral meeting, 
provid ed that each such it em is accompan ied by a justification or a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the g eneral 
meeting, and that the y hav e the r ight to table draf t resolutions f or it ems included or to be included on the ag enda of 
a general meeting, as the case ma y be. Where those r ights are subject to the condition that the relevant shareholder 
or shareholders hold a minimum stake in the under taking, such minimum stake is not to exce ed 5 % of the share 
capital. As regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting, shareholders should be able to exer cise the r ights set 
(
36
) Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of cer tain r ights of shareholders 
in listed compan ies (OJ L 184, 14.7.2007, p. 17).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/38 16.12.2022