--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C58
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 16
Word Range: 14962 - 15211
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 16]
(46) It should be ensured that the inf or mation repor ted by under takings in accordance with the sustainability repor ting 
standards meets the needs of users and does not place a dispropor tionat e burden in term s of eff or t and cost on the 
repor ting under takings and those that are indirectly aff ected as par t of the value c hain of those under takings. The 
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the inf or mation that under takings are to disclose on all 
maj or environmental fact ors, including their im pacts and dependencies on climat e, air , land, water and biodiversity . 
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 provid es a classificat ion of the en vironmental objectives of the Union.
For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iat e to use a similar classification to identify the en vironmental fact ors that 
should be addressed by sustainability repor ting standards. The sustainability repor ting standards should consider 
and specify any ge ographical or other conte xtual inf or mation that under takings should disclose to provi de an 
understanding of their pr incipal impa cts on sustainability matt ers and the pr incipal r isks to the under taking ar ising 
from sustainability matt ers. When specifying the inf or mation about en vironmental fact ors that under takings are to 
disclose, coherence should be ensured with the def initions laid down in Ar ticle 2 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and 
the repor ting requirements laid down in Ar ticle 8 of that Regulation and in the delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to 
that Regulation.
(47) With regard to climat e-related inf or mation, users are inte rested in knowing about under takings’ physical and 
transition r isks, and about their resilience as regards, and plans to adap t to, differ ent climate scenar ios and plans to 
adapt to the U nion’s objective of climat e neutrality by 2050. They are also interest ed in the level and scope of GHG 
emissions and removals attr ibuted to the under taking, including the ext ent to whic h the under taking uses offsets 
and the source of those offsets. A c hieving a climat e neutral econom y requires the alignment of GHG accounting 
and offsetting standards. Users need reliable inf or mation regar ding offsets that addresses concer ns regarding 
possible double counting and overestimations, given the r isks to the achi evement of climate -related targets that 
double counting and o verestimations can creat e. Users are also inte rested to know the eff or ts made by compan ies to 
effe ctively reduce absolute GHG emissions as par t of their climate mitigation and adaptation strategies, including 
scope 1, scope 2 and, where relevant, scope 3 emissions.
With regard to scope 3 emissions, a pr ior ity f or users is to receive inf or mation about whic h scope 3 catego r ies are 
signif icant in the case of the under taking, and about the emissions in each of those scope 3 catego r ies. The 
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the inf or mation under takings should repor t with regar d 
to such matters.
(48) A c hieving a climat e-neutral and circular economy without diffuse pollution requires the full mobilisation of all 
economic sect ors. Reducing energy use and increasing energy effi ciency is ke y in this respect, as energy is used 
across supply c hains. Energy aspects should theref ore be duly considered in sustainability repor ting standards, in 
par ticular in relation to envi ronmental matte rs, including climat e-related matt ers.
(49) Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the inf or mation that under takings should disclose on social fact ors, 
including working conditions, social par tner inv olvement, collective bargaining, equality , non-discr imination, 
diversity and inclusion, and human r ights. Such inf or mation should cover the impacts of the under taking on 
people, including w orkers, and on human health. The inf or mation that under takings disclose about human r ights 
should include inf or mation about f orced labour and child labour in their value c hains where relevant. Sustainability 
repor ting requirements concer ning f orced labour should not free public author ities of their responsibility to address, 
through trade policy and diplomatic means, the im por t of goods produced as a result of human r ights abuses, 
including f orced labour . U nder takings should also be able to repor t on possible r isks and trends regarding 
emplo yment and incomes.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address social fact ors should specify the inf or mation that under takings 
should disclose with regard to the pr inciples of the European Pillar of Social Rights that are relevant to businesses, 
including equal oppor tunities f or all and w orking conditions. The A ction Plan on the European Pillar of Social 
Rights, adop ted by the Commission on 4 Marc h 2021 , calls f or stronger requirements on under takings to repor t on 
social issues. The sustainability repor ting standards should also specify the inf or mation that under takings should 
disclose with regar d to the human r ights, fundamental freedoms, democratic pr inciples and standards established in 
the Internati onal Bill of Human Rights and other core UN human r ights con ventions, including the UN Convention 
on the Rights of P ersons with Disabilities, the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indige nous P eoples, the UN 
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/30 16.12.2022