--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-101-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-101
Page Range: Page 21 to Page 22
Word Range: 18246 - 19956
Word Count: 1,711
--------------------

[Page 21]
intended users of that inf or mation. Although the objective is to hav e a similar level of assurance f or fi nancial and 
sustainability repor ting, the absence of a commonly agreed standard f or the assurance of sustainability repor ting 
creat es the r isk of diffe rent understandings and expectations of what a reasonable assurance enga gement w ould 
consist of f or different categor ies of sustainability inf or mation, especially with regar d to f or ward-looking and 
qualitative disclosures.
Theref ore, a progressive approach to enhancing the level of the assurance required f or sustainability inf or mation 
should be considered, star ting with an oblig ation on the statutor y auditor or audit fir m to express an opinion about 
the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with U nion requirements based on a limited assurance engag ement. 
That opinion should cover the compl iance of the sustainability repor ting with U nion sustainability repor ting 
standards, the process car r ied out by the under taking to identify the inf or mation repor te d pursuant to the 
sustainability repor ting standards and compl iance with the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting. The 
auditor should also assess whether the under taking’s repor ting complies with the repor ting requirements of 
Ar ticle 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. T o ensure a common understanding and common expectations of what a 
reasonable assurance engag ement would consist of, the statut or y auditor or audit fir m should be required to express 
an opinion based on a reasonable assurance engag ement about the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with 
U nion requirements, when the Commission adopts assurance standards f or reasonable assurance of sustainability 
repor ting by means of delegat ed acts no later than 1 October 2028 , f ollowing an assessment to deter mine if 
reasonable assurance is f easible f or auditors and under takings.
The gradual approach from limited assurance engag ements to reasonable assurance engag ements w ould also allow 
f or the progressive development of the assurance mark et f or sustainability inf or mation, and of under takings’ 
repor ting practices. Finally , such gradual approach would phase in the increase in costs f or repor ting under takings, 
given that assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement is more costly than 
assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a limite d assurance engag ement. Under takings subject to 
sustainability repor ting requirements should be able to decide to hav e an assurance opinion on their sustainability 
repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement if they so wish, and in such cases they should be deemed to 
hav e compl ied with the oblig ation to hav e an opinion based on a limited assurance engag ement. The opinion based 
on a reasonable assurance engag ement concer ning f or ward-looking inf or mation is only an assurance that such 
inf or mation has been prepared in accordance with applicable standards.
(61) Statut or y auditors or audit fi r ms already ver ify the financial stat ements and the management repor t. The assurance 
of sustainability repor ting by the statutor y auditors or audit fir ms w ould help to ensure the connectivity between, 
and consiste ncy of, financia l and sustainability inf or mation, which is par ticularly im por tant f or users of 
sustainability inf or mation. However , there is a r isk of fur ther concentration of the audit mark et, which could r isk 
the independence of auditors and increase audit f ees or fe es relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
Consider ing the ke y role of statut or y auditors when providin g assurance of sustainability repor ting and ensur ing 
reliable sustainability inf or mation, the Commission has announced that it will act to fur ther enhance audit quality 
and to create a more open and diversif ied audit market, which are the conditions f or the successful application of 
this amending Directive. In addition, it is desirable to offe r under takings a broader c hoice of independent assurance 
ser vices provid ers f or the assurance of sustainably repor ting. Member Stat es should theref ore be allowed to accredit 
independent assurance ser vices providers in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European 
P arliament and of the Council (
34
) to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, which should be 
published tog ether with the management repor t. In addition, Member State s should be given the op tion of allowing 
(
34
) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European P arliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements f or 
accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 16.12.2022 L 322/35

[Page 22]
a statutor y auditor , other than the one(s) car r ying out the statutor y audit of the financia l state ments, to express an 
assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting. Fur ther more, if they allo w independent assurance ser vices provid ers 
to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, Member Stat es should also allo w a statut or y auditor , other 
than the one(s) car r ying out the statut or y audit of the fi nancial statements, to express an assurance opinion on 
sustainability repor ting.
Member Stat es should set out requirements that ensure the quality of the assurance of sustainability repor ting car r ied 
out by independent assurance ser vices pro viders and consistent outcomes in the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting. Theref ore, all independent assurance ser vices providers should be subject to requirements that are 
equivalent to the requirements set out in Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (
35
)
as regar ds the assurance of sustainability repor ting, while being adap ted to the charact er istics of independent 
assurance ser vices pro viders which do not car r y out statut or y audits. In par ticular , Member State s should set out 
equivalent requirements as regards training and examination, continuing education, quality assurance system s, 
professiona l ethics, independence, objectivity , conf identiality and profess ional secrecy , appointment and dismissal, 
the org anisation of the w ork of independent assurance ser vices provid ers, investig ations and sanctions, and the 
repor ting of ir regular ities. This w ould also guarant ee a level pla ying field among all persons and fir ms allo wed by 
Member Stat es to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, including statutor y auditors. If an 
under taking seeks the opinion of an accredit ed independent assurance ser vices provid er other than the statutor y 
auditor on its sustainability repor ting, it should not in addition need to request an assurance opinion on its 
sustainability repor ting from the statutor y auditor .
Independent assurance ser vices provid ers that hav e already been accredited by a Member Stat e f or the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting should continue to be allowe d to do so. Like wise, Member States should ensure that 
independent assurance ser vices providers that, by the dat e of application of the new requirements on training and 
examination, are undergoing their accreditation process are not subject to those new accreditation requirements, 
provid ed the y compl ete that process within two yea rs of the dat e of application of those new requirements. Member 
State s should, however , ensure that all the independent assurance ser vices pro viders accredite d by a Member State f or 
the assurance of sustainability repor ting within two y ears of the date of application of the new accreditation 
requirements, acquire the necessar y knowledg e in sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability 
repor ting through continued profes sional education.
(62) In order to f oste r the free move ment of ser vices, Member State s should allo w independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers established in a diffe rent Member State to car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in their 
terr itory . This w ould also f av our opening up the assurance mark et even when not all Member State s allo w f or the 
accreditation of independent assurance ser vices provid ers in their terr it or y . Where independent assurance ser vices 
provid ers car r y out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the terr it or y of a host Member State, that host 
Member State should be able to decide to super vise independent assurance ser vices providers, given the possibility 
to leverage on the implement ed framew ork f or the super vision of auditors car r ying out the assurance of 
sustainability repor ting.
(63) Member States should ensure that when an under taking is required by Union la w to hav e elements of its 
sustainability repor ting ver ified by an accredit ed independent third par ty , the repor t of the accredited independent 
third par ty should be made available either as an annex to the manage ment repor t or by any other publicly 
accessible means. Such making ava ilable of that repor t should not pre-emp t the outcome of the assurance opinion 
of whic h the third-par ty ver ification should remain independent. It should not entail any duplication of w ork 
between the auditor or the independent assurance ser vices pro vider that expresses the assurance opinion and the 
accredite d independent third par ty .
(
35
) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European P arliament and of the Council of 17 Ma y 2006 on statut or y audits of annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC 
(OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87).
EN
Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 322/36 16.12.2022