--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-102-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-102
Page Range: Page 2
Word Range: 264 - 513
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
Role of Natural Climate 
Solutions in mitigating climate 
change 
The latest IPCC report is clear. There is no 
pathway to 1.5°C without a near immediate halt 
to deforestation and significant restoration of 
forests and natural ecosystems. 
And the food system has a key role to play. 
Agriculture is the primary driver of deforestation, 
natural habitat loss and degradation as well as 
biodiversity loss. The food system is estimated to 
contribute to more than a third of man -made 
greenhouse gas emissions.  
To feed the world for generations to come, we 
need to transition towards a regenerative food 
system that helps protect and restore the 
environment, improve farmers’ livelihoods, 
enhance the well-being of farming communities, 
and protect human rights.  
NCS can play a crucial role in reducing land 
sector emissions and keeping to the 1.5°C 
pathway. When done right, NCS can have 
multiple additional benefits, including 
safeguarding biodiversity, improving water 
supplies and supporting livelihoods for l ocal 
communities. Implementing NCS does not 
replace, but go hand in hand with the need for 
companies to reduce emissions from production 
practices.  
 
Nestlé’s Supply Chain (Scope 3) 
and Sourcing Landscape 
Removals Framework 
Companies within the food and agricultural 
sectors are uniquely suited to implement NCS 
projects within their value chain. They have a 
vested interest in the long -term resilience and 
productivity of their sourcing landscapes. They 
recognize the importance of addressing carbon 
impacts as well as promoting broader co -
benefits, such as livelihood improvement, 
economic development and biodiversity 
enhancement in these landscapes. 
However, despite the continued development 
of global standards, compan ies are still faced 
with a certain level of ambiguity and 
uncertainty. They need clearer guidance 
regarding what can count towards science -
based net -zero targets and how to execute 
carbon removal projects. 
To navigate  the ambiguity and uncertainty 
without delaying our action, Nestlé,  together 
with our partners, developed the Nestlé’s 
Supply Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing 
Landscape Removals Framework  This 
framework allows us to identify which NCS 
projects to invest in and implement in 
collaboration with our partners, and ultimately 
enables us to take immediate action at the scale 
we need. 
Nestlé’s Removals Framework takes a risk -
based approach to ensure carbon removals can 
be claimed towards Nestl é’s climate 
commitments following the most updated 
global standards and best practice s (e.g. ….). It  
defines the level of assurance, the type of 
evidence and frequency of measurement and