--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-102-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-102
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 1090 - 1483
Word Count: 394
--------------------

[Page 4]
believe that this would lead to excluding 
community-based or smaller projects due to 
prohibitive costs and processes. 
Monitoring & verification is critical for ensuring 
long-term success o f NCS projects where 
carbon and co-benefits are achieved during the 
lifetime of the projects and beyond. Each 
project is set up with a monitoring plan over the 
project’s lifetime. We have guidance on short - 
and long-term monitoring frequency as well as 
on the level of verification required. We 
continue to monitor this evolving space to find 
partners, explore innovative and new solutions, 
and update our own inte rnal guidance on this 
topic. 
 
Our intention & next steps 
The question for land -use sector companies is 
no longer whether they should invest in NCS 
interventions in their value chain, including on 
farms and in the surrounding landscape, but 
how action can b e taken in a timely, credible 
and permanent way. 
In 2021, Nestlé developed the first version of 
this guidance framework and the processes 
that underpin the implementation of our NCS 
projects. Since then, we have been applying this 
framework across large scale carbon removal 
projects within our value chain. 
In 2022, we scaled up our investments in NCS. 
As we developed and implemented more 
projects, we continued refining our project 
design and implementation using the adaptive 
management approach. We also strengthened 
the integration and reporting of metrics beyond 
carbon, such as biodiversity, water and social 
impacts to ensure our contribution to the 
holistic landscape restoration.  
In 2023, we took into account the new releases 
and updates of international carbon accounting 
standards, in the  updated Nestlé’s Supply 
Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing Landscape 
Removals Framework.  We will continue 
reviewing and updating this framework 
according to the GHG Protocol and the SBTi 
updates. We also commit to working with 
organizations and networks such as the 
International Platform for Insetting (IPI) and 
SBTi Beyond Value Chain Mitigation Initiative to 
advocate and mainstream climate action within 
other peer companies’ value chains. 
Nestlé is acting now, and  Nestlé’s Removals 
Framework guides us in selecting large -scale 
value chain interventions with high integrity that 
will help keep to the 1.5°C pathway. 
As the urgency has been made clear by the 
IPCC, we encourage other companies and 
organizations in the sector to engage in the 
conversation and consider taking such an 
approach forward together with their supply 
chain partners and peers.