--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-102-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-102
Page Range: Page 2 to Page 3
Word Range: 514 - 763
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
Role of Natural Climate 
Solutions in mitigating climate 
change 
The latest IPCC report is clear. There is no 
pathway to 1.5°C without a near immediate halt 
to deforestation and significant restoration of 
forests and natural ecosystems. 
And the food system has a key role to play. 
Agriculture is the primary driver of deforestation, 
natural habitat loss and degradation as well as 
biodiversity loss. The food system is estimated to 
contribute to more than a third of man -made 
greenhouse gas emissions.  
To feed the world for generations to come, we 
need to transition towards a regenerative food 
system that helps protect and restore the 
environment, improve farmers’ livelihoods, 
enhance the well-being of farming communities, 
and protect human rights.  
NCS can play a crucial role in reducing land 
sector emissions and keeping to the 1.5°C 
pathway. When done right, NCS can have 
multiple additional benefits, including 
safeguarding biodiversity, improving water 
supplies and supporting livelihoods for l ocal 
communities. Implementing NCS does not 
replace, but go hand in hand with the need for 
companies to reduce emissions from production 
practices.  
 
Nestlé’s Supply Chain (Scope 3) 
and Sourcing Landscape 
Removals Framework 
Companies within the food and agricultural 
sectors are uniquely suited to implement NCS 
projects within their value chain. They have a 
vested interest in the long -term resilience and 
productivity of their sourcing landscapes. They 
recognize the importance of addressing carbon 
impacts as well as promoting broader co -
benefits, such as livelihood improvement, 
economic development and biodiversity 
enhancement in these landscapes. 
However, despite the continued development 
of global standards, compan ies are still faced 
with a certain level of ambiguity and 
uncertainty. They need clearer guidance 
regarding what can count towards science -
based net -zero targets and how to execute 
carbon removal projects. 
To navigate  the ambiguity and uncertainty 
without delaying our action, Nestlé,  together 
with our partners, developed the Nestlé’s 
Supply Chain (Scope 3) and Sourcing 
Landscape Removals Framework  This 
framework allows us to identify which NCS 
projects to invest in and implement in 
collaboration with our partners, and ultimately 
enables us to take immediate action at the scale 
we need. 
Nestlé’s Removals Framework takes a risk -
based approach to ensure carbon removals can 
be claimed towards Nestl é’s climate 
commitments following the most updated 
global standards and best practice s (e.g. ….). It  
defines the level of assurance, the type of 
evidence and frequency of measurement and

[Page 3]
reporting required to support the emission 
removal accounting. 
Under Nestlé’s Removals Framework, we have 
been developing and implementing large-scale 
and long -term reforestation and agroforestry 
projects within our value chain. Many of these 
projects are part of the Global Reforestation 
Program (GRP).  
All projects under Nestlé’s Removals 
Framework are required to comply with the 
following best -practice principles to ensure 
their sustainable long -term benefits for the 
environment and communities, taking into 
account both local contexts and international 
standards: 
• Additionality (applicable for large scale 
projects); 
• Permanence; 
• Legal & Carbon rights; 
• Eligibility; 
• Real & M easurable (independently verified, 
consistent); 
 • No double counting; 
• Stakeholder Consultation & Consent; 
• No harm/ Additional Co-benefits. 
 
This rigorous set up enables us to create 
transformative action and innovative ways of 
working with stakeholder s, including our 
suppliers. For example, we have signed over 
20-year contracts to ensure long -term success 
of large -scale restoration projects that will 
contribute to the transformation of , for 
example, coffee production regions in 
Honduras, Colombia, and Nicaragua. Other 
projects are under way in Australia, China, 
Ghana, Ivory Coast, the Philippines, Thailand 
and Vietnam.  
 
 
How do we work on the 
ground? 
We work with global and local partners to 
implement, monitor, verify and selectively 
certify the NCS projects. Because both 
reforestation expertise and carbon expertise are 
critical for the success of our projects, we pair 
our planting partners with carbon  partners 
where deemed necessary. This allows us to 
work with leading organizations in their field of 
expertise and ensure projects are executed 
based on the most up -to-date scientific 
evidence and strong local knowledge.  
This process of co-designing projects with our 
partners requires trust and ongoing 
relationships, which in turn enable s long-term 
commitments to positive transformation in 
critical sourcing regions and for the farmers on 
the ground. 
One important aspect is to ensure that our NCS 
projects are inclusive of local communities and 
indigenous peoples. Therefore, we aim to drive 
both projects that are small, distributed and 
integrated into the farming systems, as well as 
larger ones in the surrounding sourcing 
landscape.  
For the same reason, we do not apply carbon 
credit certification to all our projects, as we