--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C55
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 13982 - 14231
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
create that environment where flows of information come and go for 
them all the time.” MS11
As part of this process with clear mutual dependencies, boundary 
spanning activities play an important role. For example, in the context of 
WVT, collecting the data outside of the workplace, such as with the help 
of a trusted local NGO, illustrates how collaboration among diverse 
actors can improve the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. 
Building a database can then provide a basis for a data analytics program 
to indicate potential hotspots. As one respondent explained, 
“[A platform] doesn’t give you a definitive “this person is in modern 
slavery” but rather it presents you with, okay, these are the various 
risk factors here. […] This person doesn’t have access to their ID 
documents. They weren’t paid on time last month. They did pay a 
recruitment fee to get this job and then you’re able to build up a bit of 
a picture and you as an auditor or a frontline responder can say, hey, 
I think there might be a modern slavery situation here.” MS6
The analytics are only as good as the input data, and collaboration is 
therefore a key enabler of data analytics. Actors collaborate to secure 
access to valuable resources, whether they are technological or admin -
istrative, to identify modern slavery. Critically, as the evidence 
demonstrated, these resources can be held by different actors from both 
domains. Technology providers, for example, may either hold or can 
facilitate access to key worker response data. However, it may only be 
possible to collect this data by drawing on the resources of other critical 
actors, such as contextually embedded NGOs holding local knowledge, 
access, and trust. Data collection, data exchange, and data analytics are 
therefore all grounded in mutual dependencies requiring good-faith 
collaborations focused on aligning key activities.
4.4. Contextual embeddedness
Context is also important for identifying modern slavery as different 
approaches will be more applicable in different situations. One partici -
pant went so far as to suggest that identifying modern slavery in practice 
means “you’re trying to figure it out on a case by case basis” (MS27), 
while another noted that you must put what you know “within the 
context of that universe” (MS23). Recognizing the context is critical and 
a failure to do so hampers the ability to identify modern slavery. For 
example, an often-cited example focused on auditor skills as one 
participant explained: 
"It’s been quite interesting to see the difference in approach and 
sometimes the auditors are lacking that nuance and really kind of the 
reality of context on the ground to put some of the information to 
analyze it against that." MS7
Resource access is one of the keys to tailoring approaches to identify 
modern slavery to the specific context of any one supply chain. Resource 
access is often underpinned through collaborations. For example, one 
key resource is physical access to local environments. Physical access 
must also be supported by the resources needed to identify modern 
slavery once on-site, such as language skills, perceptions of legitimacy, 
and technology. As our collected evidence made clear, understanding 
the context (in a facility or, more broadly, in a geographical location) 
assists collaborating actors in developing their strategies for identifying 
modern slavery. The following quote illustrates the importance of con -
textually embedded NGOs in providing access to resources required in 
many contexts, such as local translators and, more importantly, local 
networks and worker trust: 
“You know what we draw NGOs for? We draw on them for an advice 
that is localized in the different regions we work and who to align 
with if we have a case to remediate or there is a victim. So really 
leaned on people who have some expertise on the ground where we 
source from through our supply chain, who understand the real is -
sues in our supply chain.” MS15
Building on the point above, the need to understand the cultural and 
linguistic context of the workers was repeatedly emphasized. Collabo -
rations are critical in providing an understanding of the needed context. 
One expert explained the potential roles of NGOs in doing so: 
“One is that for solving a problem you need to understand the 
problem, so if you need to create a works and providing the infor -
mation doing research on understanding the context, so what is not 
working, why is not working is the first step so certainly NGOs could 
play a pivotal role on that providing background context and per -
spectives.” MS14
Understanding the broader community context in which modern 
slavery occurs is also essential. Auditors can reach out to local com -
munities (i.e., not only the workers themselves) with the help of local 
NGOs. This can be for the purpose of connecting with the broader 
community, but also for providing an additional layer of safety for the 
auditor. Improved safety, for example, could potentially be enabled 
through wearable technologies, such as having an on-the-ground com -
munity actor monitoring the location of the auditor while they were on- 
site. One participant explained the importance of connecting to the 
broader community: 
“I think, which has also been innovative, is really attempting to the 
extent possible to interview workers in their communities rather 
than at their workplaces or in areas outside of their workplaces. So 
you know, on Sundays workers that work six days a week, they might 
go to the market for a couple of hours, so we are able to interview 
them there, sort of offsite at worker housing.” MS26
Contextual embeddedness also means matching the monitoring 
technologies with the environment. Sophisticated technologies are not 
necessarily needed; basic technologies (such as mobile phones, cameras, 
or hotlines) can also be effective and appropriate in different situations. 
Technological solutions often need to be agile and suitable for the low- 
technology environments in which modern slavery often flourishes. 
Moreover, sophisticated and basic monitoring technologies can be used 
together to increase the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. This is 
illustrated in the following quote: 
“So, in certain factories, workers have high levels of literacy and 
access to smartphones, an app-based, text-based grievance mecha -
nism might work great […] In the coffee sector with funding from 
[redacted] on a needs assessment [we] found that the vast majority 
of workers didn’t have a smartphone, didn’t have Internet access, 
very low levels of the literacy, [and were] non-Spanish speakers. In 
that case, we actually determined that the lowest tech solution was 
the most appropriate that workers prefer. We also asked about their 
preferences, they preferred face to face interaction. Telephone calls 
also played apart and community radio and announcements, for 
example, but realizing that context, a high tech solution really wasn’t 
going to be appropriate to workers needs and technology access.” 
MS26
Any approach to identifying modern slavery must be mindful of the 
potential adverse effects in different contexts. One risk in some envi -
ronments is that there can be a dark side to technology. For example, 
some interviewees noted that the technology might be used to exert 
control over workers. There are also many challenges in implementing 
technologies in practice, such as ensuring poor data are not codified, 
interoperability, data security, and the high cost of mobile data, to name 
just a few of the illustrations provided by respondents. These challenges 
can vary between supply chains, so it is important to be mindful of 
unique situational contingencies. Yet, all of the experts also agreed that 
monitoring technologies can play an important role in the process of 
identifying modern slavery if it is leveraged through collaborations be -
tween key actors in the system.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
11

[Page 12]
5. Discussion
Our study provides several contributions, including further evidence 
on the existence of the contracts- and conditions-focused domains, as 
well as extending understanding of those domains with evidence of 
micro- and macro-levels of collaborations and boundary spanning col -
laborations. Importantly, our study also identified four key contin -
gencies facilitating or inhibiting the identification of modern slavery by 
leveraging monitoring technologies through collaborations. In this sec -
tion, we discuss a conceptual framework grounded in our analysis and 
discuss the contribution of our work to the literature.
5.1. Conceptual framework
Our findings provide the foundation for developing a conceptual 
framework for leveraging technology through collaboration to identify 
modern slavery ( Fig. 1 ). Our framework explains how multi-actor col -
laborations can leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern 
slavery – facilitated (or inhibited) by four key contingencies (i.e., 
modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary in -
teractions, and contextual embeddedness).
As shown in Fig. 1 , the framework recognizes the contracts-focused 
and conditions-focused domains. In the contracts-focused domain, 
multiple actors develop collaborations and exchange resources to 
further their strategic goal of confirming the absence of modern slavery. 
The collaborations and resources required to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery are based in the modern slavery posture of the actors. 
The collaboration scope can, therefore, vary from one supply chain to 
another, potentially addressing collaborations at the micro- and macro- 
levels. Grounded in RDT, these collaborations will be focused on 
ensuring the necessary resources are available to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery. In other words, the actors seek collaborations that 
address resource needs congruent with their strategic goals. As actors ’ 
motivation to identify modern slavery increases, collaborations have the 
potential to broaden in scope at the micro- and macro-levels to ensure 
that the needed resources are available to address those needs. This 
exchange of resources includes technological solutions, such as worker 
voice technologies, hotlines, or exchange of data through auditing 
platforms. The contracts-focused domain, therefore, demonstrates the 
linkage between modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, and effi -
ciently leveraging monitoring technologies through collaboration to 
confirm the absence of modern slavery in a supply chain.
The conditions-focused domain has the strategic goal of confirming 
the presence (where it exists) of modern slavery. This domain also 
originates from modern slavery posture, which is grounded in an actor ’ s 
purposeful decision to explicitly identify modern slavery. Recognizing 
modern slavery posture as a starting point for both domains underscores 
the potential for cross-boundary interactions. The framework, therefore, 
recognizes that the contracts- and conditions-focused domains are co- 
existing and can both contribute to identifying modern slavery. The 
framework also recognizes that collaborations can bring mutually 
dependent resources (such as trusted local informants) to bear through 
both domains, as well as across the micro- and macro-levels. Moreover, 
the conditions-focused domain requires that cross-boundary collabora -
tion is tailored to the unique supply chain context. Identifying the 
presence of modern slavery, particularly in cases where it is concealed, 
requires an approach specifically applicable to the context of the unique 
circumstances of that supply chain. These tailored approaches can 
include monitoring technologies leveraged through multi-actor collab -
oration. Starting from modern slavery posture, this domain therefore 
demonstrates the linkage between cross-boundary interactions, 
contextual embeddedness and effectively leveraging monitoring tech -
nologies through collaboration to confirm the presence of modern 
slavery (where it exists) in supply chains.
5.2. Contributions to the literature and theory
Our study supports the literature showing that collaborations are 
driven by a pursuit of strategic goals through recognizing and devel -
oping mutual dependencies (e.g., Berkowitz et al., 2020 ; Kretschmer 
et al., 2022 ). In the modern slavery literature, this pursuit is commen -
surate with identifying modern slavery in the contracts-focused and 
conditions-focused domains ( Simpson et al., 2021 ), with the former 
associated with confirming the absence of modern slavery, and the latter 
associated with confirming the presence of modern slavery. Our study 
also shows that RDT is a valuable outcomes focused approach (see Oli -
veira et al., 2022 ), which helps to explain the advantage provided by 
collaboration among different key actors to identify modern slavery. 
Technology adoption in collaborations is also influenced by the strategic 
goals of collaborating actors. Consequently, collaborations based around 
technologies can advance positive outcomes, such as increased veracity 
and timeliness of monitoring activities in supply chains ( Castka et al., 
2020 ; Reid and Castka, 2023 ), but also potentially lead to concealment 
and legitimization of illegal or unethical activities, such as increased 
control over the workforce ( Mol, 2010 ). While previous studies have 
alluded to some aspects of collaboration in the context of modern 
slavery ( Gold et al., 2015 ) or investigated the adoption of technological 
solutions in this context ( Marques et al., 2024 ), this research widens our 
understanding about strategic actions of actors through collaborations, 
with a specific focus on monitoring technologies (see Table 6 ).
At a more nuanced level, we expand the literature by demonstrating 
how four key contingencies (i.e., modern slavery posture, collaboration 
scope, cross-boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness) 
facilitate (or inhibit) leveraging monitoring technologies embedded in 
collaborations. First, our evidence reveals that the posture taken by 
different actors will shape why collaborations occur and the type of 
Fig. 1. Conceptual framework for leveraging monitoring technology through collaboration to identify modern slavery.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
12