--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 12 to Page 13
Word Range: 12698 - 14443
Word Count: 1,746
--------------------

[Page 12]
5. Discussion
Our study provides several contributions, including further evidence 
on the existence of the contracts- and conditions-focused domains, as 
well as extending understanding of those domains with evidence of 
micro- and macro-levels of collaborations and boundary spanning col -
laborations. Importantly, our study also identified four key contin -
gencies facilitating or inhibiting the identification of modern slavery by 
leveraging monitoring technologies through collaborations. In this sec -
tion, we discuss a conceptual framework grounded in our analysis and 
discuss the contribution of our work to the literature.
5.1. Conceptual framework
Our findings provide the foundation for developing a conceptual 
framework for leveraging technology through collaboration to identify 
modern slavery ( Fig. 1 ). Our framework explains how multi-actor col -
laborations can leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern 
slavery – facilitated (or inhibited) by four key contingencies (i.e., 
modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary in -
teractions, and contextual embeddedness).
As shown in Fig. 1 , the framework recognizes the contracts-focused 
and conditions-focused domains. In the contracts-focused domain, 
multiple actors develop collaborations and exchange resources to 
further their strategic goal of confirming the absence of modern slavery. 
The collaborations and resources required to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery are based in the modern slavery posture of the actors. 
The collaboration scope can, therefore, vary from one supply chain to 
another, potentially addressing collaborations at the micro- and macro- 
levels. Grounded in RDT, these collaborations will be focused on 
ensuring the necessary resources are available to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery. In other words, the actors seek collaborations that 
address resource needs congruent with their strategic goals. As actors ’ 
motivation to identify modern slavery increases, collaborations have the 
potential to broaden in scope at the micro- and macro-levels to ensure 
that the needed resources are available to address those needs. This 
exchange of resources includes technological solutions, such as worker 
voice technologies, hotlines, or exchange of data through auditing 
platforms. The contracts-focused domain, therefore, demonstrates the 
linkage between modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, and effi -
ciently leveraging monitoring technologies through collaboration to 
confirm the absence of modern slavery in a supply chain.
The conditions-focused domain has the strategic goal of confirming 
the presence (where it exists) of modern slavery. This domain also 
originates from modern slavery posture, which is grounded in an actor ’ s 
purposeful decision to explicitly identify modern slavery. Recognizing 
modern slavery posture as a starting point for both domains underscores 
the potential for cross-boundary interactions. The framework, therefore, 
recognizes that the contracts- and conditions-focused domains are co- 
existing and can both contribute to identifying modern slavery. The 
framework also recognizes that collaborations can bring mutually 
dependent resources (such as trusted local informants) to bear through 
both domains, as well as across the micro- and macro-levels. Moreover, 
the conditions-focused domain requires that cross-boundary collabora -
tion is tailored to the unique supply chain context. Identifying the 
presence of modern slavery, particularly in cases where it is concealed, 
requires an approach specifically applicable to the context of the unique 
circumstances of that supply chain. These tailored approaches can 
include monitoring technologies leveraged through multi-actor collab -
oration. Starting from modern slavery posture, this domain therefore 
demonstrates the linkage between cross-boundary interactions, 
contextual embeddedness and effectively leveraging monitoring tech -
nologies through collaboration to confirm the presence of modern 
slavery (where it exists) in supply chains.
5.2. Contributions to the literature and theory
Our study supports the literature showing that collaborations are 
driven by a pursuit of strategic goals through recognizing and devel -
oping mutual dependencies (e.g., Berkowitz et al., 2020 ; Kretschmer 
et al., 2022 ). In the modern slavery literature, this pursuit is commen -
surate with identifying modern slavery in the contracts-focused and 
conditions-focused domains ( Simpson et al., 2021 ), with the former 
associated with confirming the absence of modern slavery, and the latter 
associated with confirming the presence of modern slavery. Our study 
also shows that RDT is a valuable outcomes focused approach (see Oli -
veira et al., 2022 ), which helps to explain the advantage provided by 
collaboration among different key actors to identify modern slavery. 
Technology adoption in collaborations is also influenced by the strategic 
goals of collaborating actors. Consequently, collaborations based around 
technologies can advance positive outcomes, such as increased veracity 
and timeliness of monitoring activities in supply chains ( Castka et al., 
2020 ; Reid and Castka, 2023 ), but also potentially lead to concealment 
and legitimization of illegal or unethical activities, such as increased 
control over the workforce ( Mol, 2010 ). While previous studies have 
alluded to some aspects of collaboration in the context of modern 
slavery ( Gold et al., 2015 ) or investigated the adoption of technological 
solutions in this context ( Marques et al., 2024 ), this research widens our 
understanding about strategic actions of actors through collaborations, 
with a specific focus on monitoring technologies (see Table 6 ).
At a more nuanced level, we expand the literature by demonstrating 
how four key contingencies (i.e., modern slavery posture, collaboration 
scope, cross-boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness) 
facilitate (or inhibit) leveraging monitoring technologies embedded in 
collaborations. First, our evidence reveals that the posture taken by 
different actors will shape why collaborations occur and the type of 
Fig. 1. Conceptual framework for leveraging monitoring technology through collaboration to identify modern slavery.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
12

[Page 13]
technologies most likely to be adopted. The desire to either show the 
absence (contracts-focused domain) or presence (conditions-focused 
domain) of modern slavery in supply chains is an important contingency 
in the nature of multi-actor collaborations. Specifically, our study shows 
that different actors will engage in collaborations for the purpose of 
acquiring different valued or needed resources to satisfy either domain. 
In turn, this will influence actors’ assessment, and subsequent use, of 
different monitoring technologies.
Second, there are implications for the scope of collaborations and 
whether this occurs at the micro- or macro-level. While both are 
important, the former focuses on the facility level with the latter 
addressing the regional and/or national levels. As monitoring technol -
ogies are resource intensive (i.e., satellite imagery and its analytics is not 
a core competence of many actors) and not central to many firms’ raison 
d’etre (i.e., monitoring of working conditions is not a primary focus of 
labour intensive supply chains unlike, for instance, quality management 
and focus on efficiency of supply chain operations), actors seek collab -
orations to gain benefits from technologically driven solutions across 
both levels. While the pursuit of increased collaboration scope is often 
driven by the intrinsic motivation of different actors, it is notable that 
actors holding unique competencies at the micro- and/or macro-level 
play increasingly important roles in identifying modern slavery. Argu -
ably, the extended scope of collaborations is driven by competencies 
that are enhanced by technologies. It may be argued that prior to the 
digitalization of processes in supply chain audits and the more ascendant 
role played by big data and AI analytics, there was comparatively less 
reason to develop such collaborations.
Further, our research supports earlier studies ( Fawcett et al., 2008 ; 
Sodhi et al., 2022 ; Marques et al., 2024 ) arguing that social capital, such 
as trust and willingness to collaborate, are essential to applying tech -
nologies in a supply chain context, in our case to identify modern 
slavery. However, we also demonstrate that actors develop social capital 
to advance their organization centric benefits (contracts-focused 
domain), but also for a ‘greater good’ (conditions-focused domain). Our 
theoretical contribution here is to show that RDT can be usefully 
adopted to focus on other motivations of actors besides financial per -
formance (or firm survival). Such mutual dependencies can also help 
fulfil societal norms and expectations around the identification of 
modern slavery in global supply chains. We contend that RDT is a useful 
line of inquiry in modern slavery and supply chain research; it offers 
scholars a different explanatory framework in addition to theory more 
commonly used such as institutional theory and global value chain 
theory ( Strand et al., 2024 , p. 6).
Third, as actors explore more ambitious goals through developing 
cross-boundary interactions (such as data exchange and its multipurpose 
utilization), long term relationships, along with trust and enhanced ca -
pabilities, become a more central focus in collaborations. Such de -
velopments can further leverage the potential of technologies for data 
collection, exchange, and analytics. Our argument, and consistent with 
RDT, is that engagement with each of these features (i.e., data collection, 
exchange, and analytics) will depend on what purposes they individu -
ally and collectively serve in meeting different actors’ resource needs.
Fourth, the need to acquire and manage important resource de -
pendencies also enables collaborations of actors from contrasting do -
mains, as well as facilitates contextual embeddedness. The extant 
literature often identifies contrasting domains, such as symbolic versus 
substantial domains mentioned earlier ( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), but rarely 
theorizes how the contrasting domains interact. We demonstrate that 
resource dependencies allow for collaborations across domains but must 
remain mindful of different settings. This argument urges some caution 
in assuming that the identification of modern slavery through moni -
toring technology in multi-actor collaborations will be the same across 
different contexts. The success or otherwise will depend on aligning 
suitable monitoring technologies to the specific environment, the needs 
of different actors including their modern slavery posture, as well as the 
scope of the collaboration.
Table 6 
Summary of findings.
Contingencies
Modern slavery posture Collaboration Scope Cross Boundary Interactions Contextual Embeddedness
Use of 
technologies
Selected technologies reflect the modern slavery posture (i.e., technologies 
in the contracts-focused domain are intended to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery, while technologies in the conditions-focused domain are 
intended to identify it).
Increased scope of collaboration broadens the use of 
technologies – characterized by a shift from predominant 
use of technologies for data collection to data exchange and 
analysis
Cross boundary interactions can 
facilitate a shift in the use of 
technologies to serve different ends
Contextual embeddedness facilitates 
the veracity in the use of technologies, 
primarily for data collection
Resource 
dependencies
Securing needed resources to establish and/or maintain capabilities 
aligned within the modern slavery posture
Securing needed resources to develop capabilities within 
the modern slavery posture
Securing needed resources to 
repurpose the modern slavery 
posture
Securing needed resources to deepen 
capabilities
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
13