--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C62
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 15732 - 16123
Word Count: 392
--------------------

[Page 13]
technologies most likely to be adopted. The desire to either show the 
absence (contracts-focused domain) or presence (conditions-focused 
domain) of modern slavery in supply chains is an important contingency 
in the nature of multi-actor collaborations. Specifically, our study shows 
that different actors will engage in collaborations for the purpose of 
acquiring different valued or needed resources to satisfy either domain. 
In turn, this will influence actors’ assessment, and subsequent use, of 
different monitoring technologies.
Second, there are implications for the scope of collaborations and 
whether this occurs at the micro- or macro-level. While both are 
important, the former focuses on the facility level with the latter 
addressing the regional and/or national levels. As monitoring technol -
ogies are resource intensive (i.e., satellite imagery and its analytics is not 
a core competence of many actors) and not central to many firms’ raison 
d’etre (i.e., monitoring of working conditions is not a primary focus of 
labour intensive supply chains unlike, for instance, quality management 
and focus on efficiency of supply chain operations), actors seek collab -
orations to gain benefits from technologically driven solutions across 
both levels. While the pursuit of increased collaboration scope is often 
driven by the intrinsic motivation of different actors, it is notable that 
actors holding unique competencies at the micro- and/or macro-level 
play increasingly important roles in identifying modern slavery. Argu -
ably, the extended scope of collaborations is driven by competencies 
that are enhanced by technologies. It may be argued that prior to the 
digitalization of processes in supply chain audits and the more ascendant 
role played by big data and AI analytics, there was comparatively less 
reason to develop such collaborations.
Further, our research supports earlier studies ( Fawcett et al., 2008 ; 
Sodhi et al., 2022 ; Marques et al., 2024 ) arguing that social capital, such 
as trust and willingness to collaborate, are essential to applying tech -
nologies in a supply chain context, in our case to identify modern 
slavery. However, we also demonstrate that actors develop social capital 
to advance their organization centric benefits (contracts-focused 
domain), but also for a ‘greater good’ (conditions-focused domain). Our 
theoretical contribution here is to show that RDT can be usefully 
adopted to focus on other motivations of actors besides financial per -
formance (or firm survival). Such mutual dependencies can also help 
fulfil societal norms and expectations around the identification of 
modern slavery in global supply chains. We contend that RDT is a useful 
line of inquiry in modern slavery and supply chain research; it offers 
scholars a different explanatory framework in addition to theory more 
commonly used such as institutional theory and global value chain 
theory ( Strand et al., 2024 , p. 6).
Third, as actors explore more ambitious goals through developing 
cross-boundary interactions (such as data exchange and its multipurpose 
utilization), long term relationships, along with trust and enhanced ca -
pabilities, become a more central focus in collaborations. Such de -
velopments can further leverage the potential of technologies for data 
collection, exchange, and analytics. Our argument, and consistent with 
RDT, is that engagement with each of these features (i.e., data collection, 
exchange, and analytics) will depend on what purposes they individu -
ally and collectively serve in meeting different actors’ resource needs.
Fourth, the need to acquire and manage important resource de -
pendencies also enables collaborations of actors from contrasting do -
mains, as well as facilitates contextual embeddedness. The extant 
literature often identifies contrasting domains, such as symbolic versus 
substantial domains mentioned earlier ( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), but rarely 
theorizes how the contrasting domains interact. We demonstrate that 
resource dependencies allow for collaborations across domains but must 
remain mindful of different settings. This argument urges some caution 
in assuming that the identification of modern slavery through moni -
toring technology in multi-actor collaborations will be the same across 
different contexts. The success or otherwise will depend on aligning 
suitable monitoring technologies to the specific environment, the needs 
of different actors including their modern slavery posture, as well as the 
scope of the collaboration.
Table 6 
Summary of findings.
Contingencies
Modern slavery posture Collaboration Scope Cross Boundary Interactions Contextual Embeddedness
Use of 
technologies
Selected technologies reflect the modern slavery posture (i.e., technologies 
in the contracts-focused domain are intended to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery, while technologies in the conditions-focused domain are 
intended to identify it).
Increased scope of collaboration broadens the use of 
technologies – characterized by a shift from predominant 
use of technologies for data collection to data exchange and 
analysis
Cross boundary interactions can 
facilitate a shift in the use of 
technologies to serve different ends
Contextual embeddedness facilitates 
the veracity in the use of technologies, 
primarily for data collection
Resource 
dependencies
Securing needed resources to establish and/or maintain capabilities 
aligned within the modern slavery posture
Securing needed resources to develop capabilities within 
the modern slavery posture
Securing needed resources to 
repurpose the modern slavery 
posture
Securing needed resources to deepen 
capabilities
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
13