--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 3 to Page 4
Word Range: 3501 - 3750
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
Stevenson and Cole, 2018 ), or there can be inaction and the failure to 
acknowledge its occurrence ( Stevenson, 2022 ).
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide a granular 
understanding of how to identify modern slavery, recognizing how 
different approaches can lead to different outcomes. However, much like 
firms can simultaneously adopt symbolic and substantive practices to 
address non-financial issues such as quality or sustainability issues 
( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), they can also simultaneously adopt approaches 
that fall within and bridge the contracts- or conditions-focused domains. 
Little is currently understood, however, about how the two domains 
co-exist and how activities within each domain interact. This is impor -
tant given the need to understand how different collaborations can 
leverage different monitoring technologies within and across the two 
domains to identify modern slavery.
2.2. Collaboration to identify modern slavery
Collaboration occurs when “two or more independent companies 
work jointly to plan and execute supply chain operations with greater 
success than when acting in isolation” ( Simatupang and Sridharan, 
2002 ). Given such a broad definition, it is clear that multiple forms of 
collaborations exist in global supply chains, from strategic alliances to 
more arms-length collaborations ( Hayes et al., 2005 ). Moreover, col -
laborations are driven by context: there is no single best way or blue -
print on how different actors collaborate. Fundamentally, collaborations 
are pursued to increase success of involved actors in achieving their 
objectives. These could include, for example, instrumental objectives 
focused on identifying modern slavery to prevent firm reputational 
damage. Collaboration can also be altruistic in nature, recognizing the 
moral obligation to remedy severe worker exploitation ( Pannekoek 
et al., 2023 ).
The main types of supply chain collaboration strategies are hori -
zontal and vertical integration ( Barratt, 2004 ). Horizontal collaboration 
occurs when two or more competing or unrelated firms (at the same 
level of the supply chain) cooperate to share resources, such as 
manufacturing capacity. Horizontal collaboration has been examined in 
response to modern slavery and requires relational capital and effective 
governance mechanisms to succeed ( Benstead et al., 2018 ). Vertical 
collaboration occurs at different levels of the supply chain – with cus -
tomers, internally (across functions), service providers, and with sup -
pliers ( Barratt, 2004 ). Collaborations between different producers, 
distributors and other actors enables a more contextualized approach in 
supply chains ( Caputo and Mininno, 1996 ), arguably providing more 
scope to strengthen labour standards and conditions ( LeBaron, 2021 ).
Collaboration is an area of increasing focus in sustainable supply 
chain research including the need for cross disciplinary scholarship 
( Kach et al., 2025 ), but social concerns, such as extreme labour condi -
tions, have rarely been studied in this context ( Geng et al., 2017 ). Much 
of the limited research that exists focuses on relationships between 
buyers and suppliers, suppliers for a common buyer ( Touboulic and 
Walker, 2015 ), or buyers with common suppliers ( Nidumolu et al., 
2014 ). Collaborative practices to identify modern slavery are critical, as 
they do not just impact source firms but can enhance the capabilities of 
other actors to reduce modern slavery risks, such as suppliers ( Emberson 
et al., 2022 ). Suppliers may adapt their vertical and horizontal re -
lationships to reduce the risk of modern slavery through strategies such 
as horizontal systemization, vertical systemization, horizontal trans -
formation, and vertical differentiation ( Emberson et al., 2022 ). The 
implication is that collaboration recognizes and promotes agency among 
the different actors to enact a range of complementary and mutually 
beneficial outcomes for all.
Collaborations beyond supplier and buyer relationships, particularly 
in a modern slavery context, can involve direct interventions, awareness 
campaigns, or government advocacy for policy changes, among others. 
Collaboration to combat modern slavery typically starts by building 
coalitions where firms, NGOs, and government agencies mobilize 
around a common goal ( Gutierrez-Huerter et al., 2023 ). Many initiatives 
focus on raising awareness to help prevent exploitation ( Bales, 2012 ), or 
on training and capacity building. Corporations, NGOs, and govern -
ments often work together to train law enforcement, immigration offi -
cials, and social service providers on human trafficking issues ( Raineri 
and Strazzari, 2022 ). Collaboration on supplier audits is another form of 
collaboration. Based on a study of 35 brands, an NGO, and a trade body, 
Benstead et al. (2018) investigated how horizontal collaboration can 
enable responses to modern slavery legislation in the textiles and fashion 
industry. Fransen and LeBaron (2019) examined the role of the “Big 
Four” audit firms in services connected to transnational labor gover -
nance. Drawing on a case study linked to modern slavery, they found 
that auditing firms “engage in a variety of informal and covert influ -
encing practices”, such as in promoting incremental improvements to 
soft-law labor governance and serving as civil society’s independent 
watchdog ( Fransen and LeBaron, 2019 , p. 260). Gold et al. (2015) also 
highlighted the need for multi-actor approaches to address modern 
slavery.
2.3. Using technology to identify modern slavery in supply chains
Technology can be broadly defined as “the practical application of 
knowledge especially in a particular area” or “a manner of accom -
plishing a task especially using technical processes, methods, or 
knowledge”, among many other possible formulations.
3
In this paper, 
we focus specifically on monitoring technologies. Monitoring technol -
ogies can be classified as a form of “indirect” technologies. Unlike direct 
technologies (i.e., technologies that enable transformation of inputs into 
outputs, such as trucks, flexible manufacturing systems or material 
processing technologies), indirect technologies focus on controlling and 
coordinating direct processes. Technology has been used to support 
broader social compliance audits, with a recent Gartner report providing 
a set of categories to structure thinking about its potential application 
( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ).
Table 1 groups monitoring technologies into three main categories: 
technologies enabling data collection, data exchange, and data ana -
lytics. First, monitoring technologies can be used for data collection, 
either on-site or in a specific geographic area. For example, landlines 
and video cameras are frequently used at the facility-level. Data 
collection can be enabled by the use of satellite imaging in a broader 
geographic area ( Reid and Castka, 2023 ). Second, monitoring technol -
ogies can be used for data exchange. Technologies can be used to ensure 
interoperability between actors, which is important for any form of 
collaboration ( Herding and Fischer, 2015 ). At a facility, for example, 
smart phones might be used by auditors to upload data in shareable 
formats to apps connected to broader audit platforms ( Castka and 
Searcy, 2023 ). Blockchain can then provide an unalterable ledger to 
provide confidence on product provenance throughout a supply chain. 
Third, monitoring technologies can be used to help draw conclusions 
about the data collected through data analytics. For example, algorthims 
could be developed to predict modern slavery hotspots. Research on the 
specific use of technologies to identify modern slavery has started to 
emerge, including the use of technology to improve product traceability 
( McGrath et al., 2021 ), using blockchain ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), 
applying worker voice technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 
2019 ), and applying satellite imaging ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). More 
broadly, institutional pressures have been shown to encourage digital 
technology adoption by firms seeking to alleviate modern slavery risks 
( Jiang et al., 2023 ).
Technology is being increasingly incorporated to facilitate collabo -
rations between different actors and optimize the use and allocation of 
resources ( Castka and Searcy, 2023 ). These collaborations are usually 
initiated by a focal actor needing resources to accomplish their 
3
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/technology .
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
3

[Page 4]
objective, but there are several potential barriers to collaboration that 
seek to leverage technology. Different technologies used by suppliers 
throughout a supply chain can be an important barrier to collaboration, 
but many potentially “ intractable ” barriers are rooted in people issues, 
such as “ culture, trust, aversion to change, and willingness to collabo -
rate ” ( Fawcett et al., 2008 ). Overcoming these barriers is essential to 
successfully leverage monitoring technologies in multi-actor collabora -
tions. For example, in a modern slavery context, an auditing firm may 
collaborate with NGOs for access to genuine employee perspectives or 
local communities ( Taylor and Shih, 2019 ). Technologies play a role in 
addressing collaborative challenges that exist between these actors. For 
instance, actors involved in supplier auditing are exposed to legitimacy 
risks due to poor timeliness and veracity in supplier auditing ( Castka 
et al., 2020 ). Data collection can be enabled through the use of mobile 
apps ( Locke, 2013 ), which allow for faster data exchange. Mobile apps 
and other technologies also permit the collection of greater amounts of 
data – in part mitigating bias ( Solymosi and Bowers, 2018 ). Machine 
learning and artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to identify patterns 
of trafficking and slavery in large datasets, making it easier to identify 
at-risk areas or at-risk individuals ( Land and Barry, 2021 ). Technology 
could thus help NGOs, firms, and regulatory agencies to share pertinent 
data and work together more effectively.
Technology, however, is not a panacea. There is potentially a dark 
side to the use of monitoring technology, such as strengthening the 
ability to control employees through surveillance or serving as a cover 
for minimal or no performance improvement ( Mol, 2010 ). Research is 
also emerging on the potential dissatisfaction in adopting supply chain 
technologies, such as blockchain, the Internet of Things (IoT), and 
artificial intelligence (AI) ( Sodhi et al., 2022 ). As Sodhi et al. (2022 , p. 
2517) explain, the perceived benefits “ depend on the interaction be -
tween technology and the users, not on the technology alone ” . This point 
is supported by Marques et al. (2024) , who demonstrated that, while 
blockchain is often promoted as a solution to supply chain transparency 
problems, this can be substantially undermined by a lack of trust be -
tween supply chain partners. Blockchain can also introduce additional 
unanticipated costs and risks ( Murray et al., 2021 ). Technology can thus 
create “ inflated expectations ” ( Sodhi et al., 2022 ) in supply chain 
management, including in the ability to identify modern slavery. Suc -
cessfully leveraging monitoring technology to identify modern slavery is 
therefore contingent on multi-actor collaborations grounded in trust, a 
genuine willingness to collaborate, and a recognition of its limitations.
2.4. Theoretical underpinnings
There are many actors (e.g., businesses, service providers, NGOs, 
auditors, employees, etc.) as identified by McLaren et al. (2024) , and 
monitoring technologies (e.g., blockchain, remote sensing and satellites, 
worker voice applications, etc.) that may be necessary to identify 
modern slavery. While institutional theory and global value chain the -
ory are the most frequently used theories in modern slavery and supply 
chains research ( Strand et al., 2024 , p. 6), we pursue a different line of 
inquiry. We draw on resource dependence theory (RDT) as a lens for our 
study. RDT understands control between firms from two perspectives: 
power imbalance and mutual dependence ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). While 
power imbalances exist within supply chains and can impact the ability 
to identify modern slavery, we regard this perspective as highly suited to 
accounting for competitive situations. Our focus in this study is on the 
mutual dependence perspective and its ability to explain multi-actor 
collaboration. Previous research has shown that mutual dependence 
has a positive impact on collaborative performance ( Casciaro and Pis -
korski, 2005 ; Shiu et al., 2023 ). Therefore, consistent with Shiu et al. 
(2023 , p. 2), we adopt the view that “ a firm needs to devote time and 
resources towards coordinating other firms in order to obtain resources 
for its strategic goals ” . The mutual dependence perspective underpins 
our theoretical approach, since it emphasizes the need for multiple ac -
tors, often spread across multiple jurisdictions, to work together to 
identify modern slavery.
RDT is primarily concerned with understanding and explaining firm 
survival. RDT argues that for an organization to survive, it must acquire 
valued and necessary resources, but that these resources are often held 
by others ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 1978 ). This creates uncertainty for or -
ganizations, precipitating them to manage their environmental uncer -
tainty and resource acquisition in different ways. Resources can be 
tangible or intangible assets that are viewed as organizational strengths 
( Wernerfelt, 1984 ). Resources could be direct, such as labour and raw 
materials, or they could be indirect, such as favourable legislation. Re -
sources could also be considered from the perspective of substantive 
resources, such as cash flow and technology, or symbolic resources, such 
as legitimacy and reputation ( Meyer and Rowan, 1977 ). Different or -
ganizations hold and control different resources and, to mitigate risks 
and survive, organizations must interact with other entities which 
control them ( Scott and Davis, 2015 ).
Organizations are conceptualized as open systems embedded in a 
network of interdependencies with other organizations ( Pfeffer and 
Salancik, 1978 ). The interdependence with other organizations lies in 
the availability of different (valued) resources and demand for them. For 
example, service providers require clients to use the technology they are 
selling to help identify modern slavery. NGOs require resources to fund 
their social objectives but also appreciate that firms value the legitimacy 
they can provide ( Michelson and Wray-Bliss, 2024 ). RDT helps explain 
which actors (and why) help provide valued resources – including 
monitoring technologies – at particular points in time (the when). 
Moreover, collaboration shows how different dependencies in modern 
slavery are managed. If we consider that modern slavery can threaten 
firms, specifically by exacerbating reputational and financial risk, the 
use of monitoring technology can either illuminate or conceal modern 
slavery practices ( Marques et al., 2024 ). It can therefore subsequently 
Table 1 
Illustrative examples of using technology to identify modern slavery in supply 
chains.
Category Illustrative examples of monitoring technologies and their use
Data 
collection
• Supply chain mapping technologies: platforms and tools that help 
companies visualize their supply chains based on data gathered 
on supplier locations, relationships, and product flows.
• Worker voice technologies and hotlines: facilitate direct reporting 
from workers on abuse, exploitation, and unsafe working 
conditions by collecting real-time data.
• Auditing technologies: use of digital platforms to manage audit 
data, including worker interviews, facility inspections, and 
document reviews.
• Satellite monitoring and remote sensing: collection of imagery 
and sensor-based data related to deforestation, illegal mining, and 
other activities that may be linked to modern slavery.
• Open data and publicly available resources: gathering data from 
government reports, NGO databases, social media, and news 
articles to identify risk factors.
Data 
exchange
• Blockchain technology: facilitates secure and transparent data 
exchange between different actors in the supply chain; allows for 
tracking products from origin to consumer and verifying claims 
related to ethical sourcing.
• Supplier ethical data exchange: enables companies to share 
responsible sourcing data with their suppliers and customers (e.g., 
Sedex).
• Cloud-based platforms: allows companies to share information 
about suppliers, audit results, and other relevant data with 
stakeholders, potentially in real-time.
Data 
analytics
• Big Data and AI-powered analytics: assemble large datasets from 
various sources (e.g., supply chain mapping, audits, worker re -
ports, news articles, etc.) to analyze data and identify high-risk 
suppliers or regions based on various indicators.
• Natural Language Processing: use of NLP to analyze text data (e. 
g., news articles, social media posts) to identify potential cases of 
modern slavery.
• Geospatial analysis: analyze geographical data to identify areas 
with high concentrations of vulnerable populations or industries 
known for forced/exploited workers.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
4