--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C37
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 8
Word Range: 9283 - 9532
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 8]
around our four key contingencies, focusing on how they facilitate (or 
inhibit) identifying modern slavery by leveraging monitoring technol -
ogies through multi-actor collaboration. Collectively, the findings pro -
vide a basis for directly answering our research question.
4.1. Modern slavery posture
Modern slavery posture refers to the reason why an organization 
pursues collaboration. There are many reasons why various actors in 
supply chains do not want modern slavery to be found. For example, it 
can be highly profitable for those exploiting others. However, they could 
also be severely punished if it is located, such as reputational risk for a 
firm, or criminal liability for an individual. Motivation is thus impactful 
in determining the modern slavery posture of any given actor – a firm, 
auditing body or NGO. This is illustrated by the following quote: 
“In terms of how difficult is it to find, it is. It depends on whether 
you’re looking for it and it depends on whether you want to find it.” 
MS4
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide contrasting 
environments in which modern slavery is identified. We note that many 
interviewees indicated the existence of these domains, though the ter -
minology used to describe them varied. For example: 
“I think those are kind of the two camps that I’ve noticed. One kind 
tends to be used to cater to corporations’ risk-based approach and 
then the NGOs tend to come in for more continuous improvement 
approach. Or not necessarily always NGOs, they could be consul -
tancies, they could be social enterprises, but I think there’s a bit more 
potentially, a more holistic approach to looking at the root cause 
rather than a compliance-based approach.” MS7
In the contracts-focused domain, firms seek collaborations and 
secure resources predominantly to acquire compliance with standards 
and other reference points. In fact, respondents frequently referred to 
this domain as the “compliance-domain” in the interviews. Firms are 
increasingly pushed to address modern slavery through audits, certifi -
cations, and other compliance mechanisms and look for actors that can 
provide such services. We also heard many comments about audits 
focused on confirming the absence of modern slavery, in many cases as a 
mechanism to avoid trouble. To illustrate, 
“I think that the compliance-based approach is very familiar to 
companies. So, I think many of them still seek social audits as from a 
compliance-based perspective and a risk mitigation, risk minimiza -
tion perspective. But there is definitely a trend now and a lot of 
spotlight on companies that move away from trouble, some suppliers 
or regions or commodities, rather than actually working with the 
supply chain to improve it.” MS7
The contracts domain is thus characterized by actors whose primary 
interest is in confirming the absence of modern slavery in their supply 
chains, not necessarily identifying (and remediating) it. Moreover, this 
domain is dominated by firms and service providers. Although other 
actors might get involved (e.g., an NGO might assist with data collec -
tion), this involvement tends to be limited or reduced to symbolic col -
laborations. Notably, and consistent with RDT, the firms and service 
providers have significant control and discretion over the allocation of 
resources and their use. For example, the audits (and related data) have 
a commercial value, which is protected and leveraged for the benefit of 
participating actors (i.e., a certificate demonstrates absence of modern 
slavery). Actors in the contracts-focused domain are primarily con -
cerned with improvements of the audit process, such as cost-cutting or 
audit integration.
In the conditions-focused domain, actors are interested in identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (and then working to remediate it). This 
domain is dominated by NGOs, labour unions, and other actors whose 
raison d’etre is different from firms seeking compliance and 
certification. These actors also employ different mechanisms to identify 
modern slavery: there is less focus on audits and more focus on inves -
tigative work and working with local communities as the following 
quote illustrates: 
“NGOs are going to identify [modern slavery] better, but also it’s not 
just sort of putting a red dot on a map to say there is forced labour 
there. An NGO is going to do a better job of working with a local 
community and identifying what the appropriate remedy is. Because, 
in the end what’s going to prevent forced labour in a particular in -
dustry or what’s going to stop existing forced labour or what’s going 
to remedy forced labour is kind of context specific.” MS27
Recognizing the two modern slavery domains has important rami -
fications for selecting collaborating partners since each domain has 
different aims and approaches to identifying modern slavery. From a 
RDT perspective, for instance, it means that actors seek to secure 
different resources and align (or naturally drift toward) a domain that 
provides such resources and which allows the actors control over the 
allocation of resources for their intended purpose. An example might be 
a firm that seeks to legitimize practices in their supply chains (but not 
necessarily improve these practices), is likely to collaborate with actors 
that provide such service. Consequently, the selection and adaptation of 
technologies also serves as a tool to leverage the legitimization of supply 
chain practices. For example, worker voice technologies (WVT) can be 
used to actively conceal labour issues by careful selection of participants 
or through persecution of whistle blowers. Hotlines can be similarly 
used to monitor the workforce and identify workers the company may 
view as problematic. Conversely, technologies supporting more genuine 
motivations can have the opposite effect.
The adoption of specific monitoring technologies is driven by the 
objectives of the collaboration. For example, an organization may seek 
improvements to its data collection process to achieve greater audit 
efficiency – a typical approach for actors operating in the contracts 
focused domain. Actors involved in audits can benefit from the digita -
lization of the audit process enabled by various technologies (e.g., data 
collection platforms; phone-based apps, etc.). As the following quote 
illustrates, this can enhance audit efficiency: 
“I think technology in the audit process, I mean certainly one thing 
that’s helped is for the auditors to be able to answer the questions. On 
their audit protocol for them to be able to go through and answer 
those questions you know kind of in real time. And you know just 
save them time and energy and also as soon as you’re writing a piece 
of paper and transferring it. […] The fact that the reports get auto -
matically uploaded to [audit platform X] or [audit platform Y] or 
whomever I think that’s also really helpful …” MS9
4.2. Collaboration scope
We found two principal modes of collaborations: micro-level collab -
orations enable identifying modern slavery at a facility level, whilst 
macro-level collaborations enable the same at a regional or national level. 
In both domains, collaborations to secure resources and capabilities 
emerge at these two levels. In the contracts-focused domain, collabo -
rations emerge to enhance the efficiency of compliance mechanisms, 
such as audits. In the conditions-focused domain, the focus was on 
mobilizing communities to identify modern slavery (see Table 5 ). Cross 
boundary collaboration is also possible, as we explore in Section 4.3 .
Collaborations engaged in by each actor depends on the modern 
slavery posture. For example, audits performed at individual facilities 
could be used for multiple purposes – an activity typical for the 
contracts-focused domain. This is a focus of so-called audit platforms – 
data collection and exchange mechanisms, which are developed to 
enable an exchange of insights gained through an audit at one facility to 
inform further insights for various supply chain actors, who use the same 
facility. If actors collaborate across the micro- and macro-levels, audit 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
8