--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C33
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 7
Word Range: 8144 - 8532
Word Count: 389
--------------------

[Page 7]
directors in our sample, those roles were often preceded by on-the- 
ground experience in auditing, consultation, and advocacy on modern 
slavery. Importantly, our respondents were also involved in oversight of 
a large number of actors and across a wide variety of sectors (e.g., 
agriculture, seafood, manufacturing). While these respondents were not 
able to share any confidential data with us, their experience positions 
them well to answer broader questions about collaborations and tech -
nology adoption. We believe this to be a strength of our data – our ex -
perts had experiences across the different roles and organizations 
involved in modern slavery. Therefore, while we have categorized the 
respondents by five actor groups in Table 3 , this is based on their roles at 
the time of the study. Many of the respondents could have been cate -
gorized into other groups at different points in their careers.
The main source of data for this study were 32 semi-structured in -
terviews conducted between August and December 2021. A recent 
report by Gartner provided background on actors involved in modern 
slavery ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ). Initially, we developed a list of 10 
global NGOs and initiated our interviews with them. We aimed to cap -
ture a variety of perspectives and were guided by referrals from them to 
increase and diversify our pool of respondents. As noted, all of the ex -
perts were deeply involved in modern slavery and had served in many 
roles to help address it, such as managing supply chains, technology 
providers, advocacy groups, victim support, and leading multi-actor 
initiatives.
The interviews lasted an hour each on average and were conducted 
over Zoom. All interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim. 
During the interviews, we were guided by a set of open-ended questions. 
We probed the respondents if needed – keeping the research question in 
mind. For example, we asked “Can you highlight some innovative 
practices that help detect modern slavery in firm’s supply chains?”, “Is 
there any opportunity for ongoing use of technologies in firm audits?”, 
and “What are some of the technologies that you use to help give you 
visibility and assurance in the company supply chain?” We followed-up 
with probing questions such as “How do you triangulate the data?”, 
“How have different technologies helped provide greater visibility and 
transparency from your organization’s perspective?”, and “Do worker 
voice technologies lead to the identification of modern slavery?” We also 
explicitly asked all respondents about the roles played by the different 
actors in identifying modern slavery.
3.3. Data analysis
Broadly, we started the analysis with our research question. We also 
grounded our analysis in the literature and theory. As shown in Table 4 , 
we observed the existence of two domains identified in the literature 
( Gold et al., 2015 ; Simpson et al., 2021 ), i.e., the contracts- and 
conditions-focused domains. Consequently, in the analysis, we focused 
on the differences in how organizations cooperate in these domains and 
how ‘domain membership’ shapes the collaboration. As discussed earlier 
in the paper, we were also guided by RDT, with an emphasis on mutual 
dependencies.
We then performed two key rounds of data analysis. The data anal -
ysis followed procedures that are commonly adopted in qualitative 
research, including best practice for using quotes to present claims 
( Rockmann and Vough, 2024 ). We did not have any a priori coding 
scheme and “let the data speak” ( Huxham and Vangen, 2000 ). Whilst 
performing the first round of scanning through the data we focused on 
developing broader understanding of (a) what collaborations organiza -
tions pursue and why; (b) how technologies are used in collaborations; 
and (c) how the unique context affects the collaborations and use of 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery. After performing 
the first inspection of the data, we identified high-level patterns linked 
to those three questions (see Table 4 ). We compared our findings (the 
authors conducted the coding independently) and, as shown in Table 4 , 
grouped the patterns into preliminary themes. In the second round of 
analysis, we focused on establishing the linkages between the 
preliminary themes and the outcome of identifying modern slavery. As 
part of this process, we identified four key contingencies. The contin -
gencies formed the basis for the conceptual framework outlined in 
Section 5.1 .
4. Findings
This section presents the results of our data analysis. Building on the 
data analysis procedures described in Section 3 , we present the findings 
Table 4 
Overview of data analysis.
Points of departure Preliminary themes Contingencies
Research Question 
How can multi-actor 
collaborations leverage 
monitoring 
technologies to identify 
modern slavery in 
global supply chains? 
Theoretical 
underpinnings 
There are two domains 
of modern slavery: 
contracts- and 
conditions-focused. 
RDT’s mutual 
dependence perspective 
helps explain when and 
why different 
organizations 
collaborate with each 
other. 
There are inter- 
dependencies between 
collaborations and the 
use of monitoring 
technologies to identify 
modern slavery.
Collaboration 
motivation The 
motivations to 
collaborate underpin 
expectations on how 
modern slavery activities 
are organized, including 
which actors are 
engaged.
Modern slavery posture 
This is characterized by 
the contracts- and 
conditions- focused 
domains.
Modern slavery 
domains The two 
domains of modern 
slavery (i.e., contracts- 
and conditions-focused 
domains) each have their 
own modus operandi, 
which impacts 
approaches to 
identifying modern 
slavery.
Collaboration modes 
There are two levels of 
collaborations to identify 
modern slavery across 
the two domains: micro- 
and macro-levels.
Collaboration scope 
This is characterized by 
micro- and macro-level 
collaborations.
Trust building Trust is a 
foundation of close 
collaboration (e.g., data 
collection, exchange, 
and analytics) within 
and across the two levels.
Boundary spanning 
activities The two 
domains and levels are 
co-existing and 
connected; they do not 
operate in isolation.
Cross-boundary 
interactions This is 
characterized by 
collaborations between 
different motivation 
postures and different 
collaboration scopes.Activity alignment To 
leverage technology 
through collaborations, 
actors must recognize 
mutual dependencies in 
aligning their activities.
Resource access 
Identifying modern 
slavery in different 
contexts requires access 
to different 
combinations of 
resources held by 
different actors.
Contextual 
embeddedness This is 
characterized by tailored 
approaches to identifying 
modern slavery grounded 
in collaborations between 
key actors.
Context matching 
Resources, including 
technologies, must be 
matched to the unique 
context and 
collaborations in any 
supply chain, 
considering potential 
adverse effects.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
7