--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 2
Word Range: 751 - 1000
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
identify modern slavery in global supply chains.
There is a growing body of research demonstrating that technologies 
can help identify modern slavery in supply chains. Technologies dis -
cussed in a modern slavery context typically focus on those that enable 
monitoring of organizational practices and/or traceability of products 
rather than technologies assisting in direct operational processes. Ex -
amples include technologies enabling traceability ( McGrath et al., 
2021 ), blockchain technologies ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), worker voice 
technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 2019 ), or satellite im -
aging technologies ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). We label these technolo -
gies as “monitoring” technologies which can improve data collection, 
data exchange, and data analytics to improve the identification of 
modern slavery ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ). This paper explores how 
multi-actor collaborations leverage monitoring technologies to enhance 
the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. Solutions grounded in 
collaborative approaches to modern slavery offer considerable promise 
( Benstead et al., 2021 ), but little is currently understood about when, 
why, and how these collaborations occur and, critically, how monitoring 
technologies are leveraged through multi-actor collaborations to iden -
tify modern slavery.
Our study is grounded in two perspectives. First, we build on pre -
vious literature in modern slavery with a focus on two domains within it: 
the contracts-focused domain and the conditions-focused domain ( Simpson 
et al., 2021 ). Each domain exhibits unique characteristics that impact 
the choice of both collaborators and monitoring technologies. Second, 
our study utilizes resource dependence theory (RDT). RDT is a highly 
influential theory ( Hillman et al., 2009 ; Ozturk, 2021 ) that seeks to 
understand control between firms from two perspectives: power 
imbalance and mutual dependence (Shiu et al., 2023). In this study, we 
draw on the mutual dependence perspective. The mutual dependence 
perspective can be used to explain when and why different organizations 
collaborate with each other to identify modern slavery. Such motiva -
tions might include strengthening organizational power, autonomy and 
societal acceptance, or legitimacy ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). Impor -
tantly, the mutual dependence perspective recognizes that important 
and necessary resources are held by different collaborators and that 
there are interdependencies between those collaborators and the re -
sources they control ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 1978 ). We do not focus on the 
power imbalance perspective. While it may be argued that mutual 
dependence and power imbalance are connected, our primary interest is 
explaining collaboration rather than competition, as may be implied 
through attention given to power imbalance. While RDT is typically 
concerned with explaining firm survival rather than addressing or 
eliminating injustice, it also provides a lens on the critical role resources 
play in addressing potential reputational and financial risk. Such risks 
can harm firm well-being and, indirectly, their long-term survival, if 
injustices, like modern slavery, are found. With research showing that 
firms can financially benefit if they have a track record of addressing 
modern slavery risk ( Cousins et al. ) , identifying modern slavery through 
collaborative means can be an important step towards risk mitigation 
and firm success.
Building on the above, our research question is: How can multi-actor 
collaborations leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery in 
global supply chains? While there are a range of actors that are potentially 
relevant in the context of modern slavery including unions, consumers 
and investors ( McLaren et al., 2024 ), we focus particularly on collabo -
rations between employers, certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and 
other vested intermediaries. Consistent with RDT, we assume that or -
ganizations pursue collaborations to address gaps in their capabilities 
and/or capacity. This underscores that organizations require resources 
(e.g., data, access, legitimacy, and technology) to facilitate their oper -
ation, reduce uncertainties and risk, and ultimately ensure their sur -
vival. Since few organizations are self-sufficient and leveraging 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery can require unique 
competencies, they must collaborate with other organizations to meet 
capability gaps.
To address our research question, we adopt a qualitative approach. 
We conducted 32 interviews with different organizations involved in 
addressing modern slavery, inclusive of NGOs, business brands, auditing 
firms, individual auditors, technology providers, and regulatory bodies. 
All respondents had extensive experience in the domain of modern 
slavery (such as lawyers, managers, activists, purchasing managers, 
governmental officials), in different regions of the world. The re -
spondents had considerable experience in multi-actor collaboration and 
in the use of technologies in the context of modern slavery and covered a 
wide range of industries. Building on previous studies on modern slavery 
and drawing on RDT to frame and interpret our findings, we demon -
strate that leveraging monitoring technologies in multi-actor collabo -
ration to identify modern slavery is facilitated (or inhibited) by four key 
contingencies: modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross- 
boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness.
2. Conceptual and theoretical background
2.1. Modern slavery and supply chains
Modern slavery is often manifest through indicators such as forced 
work under threat or harm to the worker, owner/employer control (e.g., 
retention of identity documents or passports), restrictions on freedom of 
movement, financial mistreatment (e.g., withholding of wages, under -
payment), and a general dehumanization and commoditization 
( Caruana et al., 2020 ; Crane, 2013 , p. 53). While different economic and 
institutional conditions can precipitate modern slavery ( Moussa et al., 
2022 ), there are important capabilities that firms might utilize to insu -
late, sustain, and profit from such conditions ( Crane, 2013 ). Indeed, it 
has been argued there are multiple business models that can perpetuate 
modern slavery, including models grounded in risk reduction, asset 
leveraging, evading legal minimums, and workers as consumers ( Crane 
et al., 2022 ). Responsibility for the presence of modern slavery rests, at 
least partly, with firm managers and it is within complex organizational 
supply chains where such exploitative practices might be most apparent 
and yet most hidden ( Gold et al., 2015 ; LeBaron, 2021 ; New, 2015 ; 
Shilling et al., 2021 ; Stringer and Michailova, 2018 ).
Legislative developments aimed at eliminating modern slavery 
across numerous jurisdictions along with NGO vigilance have increased 
scrutiny and reputational risk in global supply chains ( Nolan and Bott, 
2018 ; Raj-Reichert, 2020 ). Among the growing examples are the recent 
Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act in the United States and the 
Supply Chain Management Act as part of due diligence legislation in 
Germany. While there is debate about the effectiveness of some of these 
laws, they do raise modern slavery’s public profile ( Islam and Van Sta -
den, 2022 ). Moreover, discovery of modern slavery can heighten 
investor concerns around risk and negatively impact the market value of 
the affected organization ( Nunes, 2018 ) suggesting that greater trans -
parency in supply chains is beneficial ( Kraft and Zheng, 2021 ). Despite 
these advantages, research has indicated that modern slavery is a 
“psychologically distant” or remote idea for many firms ( Simpson et al., 
2021 ).
Two domains have been identified to help structure efforts to reduce 
“psychological distance” from modern slavery ( Simpson et al., 2021 ): 
the contracts-focused domain and the conditions-focused domain. The 
contracts-focused domain focuses predominantly on confirming the 
absence of modern slavery (Ibid). This domain is audit centric, with an 
emphasis on comparing performance relative to a reference point. In 
contrast, the conditions-focused domain is driven by the context in 
which modern slavery occurs and focuses predominantly on identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (Ibid). This domain is typically investi -
gative in nature, with the mindset being to find, disclose, and remediate 
modern slavery in supply chains. However, even when modern slavery is 
found, firms might act defensively regarding the uneven or ambiguous 
public disclosure of the effectiveness of their actions against modern 
slavery ( Meehan and Pinnington, 2021 ; Schaper and Pollach, 2021 ; 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
2