--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C40
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 9
Word Range: 10033 - 10282
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 9]
results and other data can be shared to explicitly serve the interests of 
multiple actors. This means that audit requirements can reflect the needs 
of multiple actors; an integrated audit can therefore cover areas that 
would normally require multiple audits, thus contributing to audit 
optimization. The connection between the modern slavery posture, se -
lection of a collaborator, and choice of monitoring technology is high -
lighted by the following quote: 
“So, where we’ve partnered with people, like [software platform], 
….. They had a very similar mindset to us. We set up us originally 
because we recognized that there were so many different platforms, 
so many different certifications, everything like that. And then sup -
pliers are just exhausted because they’re having to answer every -
thing separately, I mean that’s a full-time job for a few people.” MS12
The collaborations in the conditions-focused domain tend to involve 
multiple actors who collaborate for a ‘greater good’. These collabora -
tions, which underscore mutual dependencies in building capacity and 
social capital in service of the larger goal of identifying modern slavery, 
can also occur at both the micro- and macro-levels. At a micro-level, 
these collaborations aim to interlink local and other actors. To provide 
one example that was raised serveral times in our interviews, an NGO 
may work with local communities to gain on-the-ground insights on the 
labour conditions of workers. At a macro-level, the actors collaborate to 
identify modern slavery in a particular location, but also work together 
to collect insights across regions and identify hotspots of modern 
slavery. If hotspots are identified in a particular area, the insights can be 
used for local actors to follow-up and investigate. Importantly, these 
insights are rarely developed by any one actor on their own, further 
underscoring mutual dependencies. 
“The technology has enabled not only to facilitate expedited opera -
tion of the hotline, but also [to] connect the resources through these 
different platforms of Salesforce and volunteers and do this heat 
map, where the situation and geospatial location, etc., […] We 
analyze all these different sorts of information that we’re gathering 
from the interaction with survivors of trafficking to sort of identify 
certain trends, when [the] same addresses and information about 
trafficking comes [up] over and over so, then we can eventually 
develop customized packages for law enforcement about information 
about traffickers, never about victims because [of] confidentiality.” 
MS11
The collaborations across micro- and macro-levels enable exchange 
of insights and data for mutual benefit. Technology can enable the ex -
change of insights (such as data or results of analytics). Whilst the free 
flow of data is essential for collaborations, the flow of data is often 
difficult to achieve. To start with, standardization of data collection is 
critical, and this will be based on the need to coordinate and collaborate 
with many actors. Many respondents explained that the lack of data 
format standards and standardized data collection processes hampered 
effective data exchange between actors: 
“So one of the kind of main criticisms of the social audit world is lack 
of standardization in the questions that are being asked and the data 
that’s being collected. […] It’s really, really hard then to kind of 
amalgamate that data together and make comparisons if everybody’s 
looking at different things at different times …” MS6
In part, the exchange of data is influenced by a willingness of indi -
vidual actors to collaborate. This willingness is often grounded in the 
trust, or lack thereof, between potential collaborators. For example, 
complicated agreements over who owns the data may prevent collabo -
ration. An illustration is whether service providers of worker voice 
technologies (WVT) own the collected data. Depending on any partic -
ular agreement, they may collaborate on projects where they are in 
control of the data or outsource their technology to actors who own (yet 
not further share) the data.
Other monitoring technological solutions may have fewer pro -
prietary restrictions. For example, satellites are increasingly being used 
to monitor large geographic areas (e.g., forests, shrimp farms, food 
processing facilities). While not necessarily definitive, this type of data 
can highlight potential risks requiring further investigation, mindful of 
the cost of acquiring this data. The benefit of using it is that local actors 
could be alerted to verify any concerns, as the following explains: 
“We have a couple of projects where we’re looking at using satellite 
imagery of monitoring forests. […] There’s some kind of the satellite 
spots deforestation, a quick survey goes out to a group of, you know, 
at local community members asking them, hey, what’s going on? Can 
you find out? That kind of triangulation of data I think is kind of the 
future of integrating these technologies together because if we’re all 
collecting information in silos and not sharing, we’re not really 
leveraging.” MS7
Technology can also enable firms to push data collection deep into 
their supply chains, including well beyond the first tier. This requires 
technological interoperability, but it also requires trust throughout the 
chain on how the data will be collected and used, particularly given the 
sensitivities around an issue like modern slavery. Financial and infor -
mational resources must thus be supported by trust, legitimacy, and an 
understanding of local contexts. In cases where trust-building is at an 
early stage, monitoring technology can enable anonymous reporting, 
which could compromise identification of issues at the micro-level, but 
might enable improved analytics at the macro-level – as illustrated by 
the following quote: 
“So it’s the lower tiers where most of the risk is because the funding 
and the work isn’t getting down that far. But if I was a tier one 
supplier and I don’t want to be cut out with the supply chain, how do 
I share that information with my brands at all? I think that allowing 
anonymous reporting is important so that you can at least find the 
risks and then figure out where to go for those suppliers that are 
particularly edgy about working with the suppliers to capacity 
building […] But then letting the suppliers have hold of that data, 
you know in our system if it’s multi tier. The tier one supplier gets to 
crunch all of the data and run analytics on their suppliers, and it 
trickles down the chain. They can look at what’s going on with the 
Table 5 
Collaborations for identifying modern slavery.
Contracts-focused domain Conditions-focused domain
Micro-level 
collaborations
Collaborations to enable 
audits at facilities
Collaborations to interlink 
local communities and 
workers
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
compliance against a standard
PRIMARY FOCUS: To mobilize 
(and give voice to) local 
communities to assist in 
revealing modern slavery
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Monitoring technologies 
enable data collection for 
auditing purposes (e.g., 
sensors)
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Monitoring technologies 
enable data collection from 
underrepresented 
communities (e.g., worker 
voice technologies)
Macro-level 
collaborations
Collaborations to enable 
supply chain audits
Collaborations to interlink 
local communities across 
regions and countries
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
efficiencies in supplier 
auditing confirming the 
absence of modern slavery
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
effectiveness of community 
mobilization in sharing 
insights across the region or 
country to assist in 
identification of modern 
slavery
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Firms can enhance data 
collection with data exchange 
technologies (e.g., cloud- 
based applications)
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Firms can use macro level data 
and analytics for identifying 
hot spots (e.g., satellites)
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
9