--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-016-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-016
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 284
Word Count: 284
--------------------

VISAKHAPATNAM: Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu has announced plans to develop an aqua corridor connecting Amaravati, Bhimavaram, Kakinada, Visakhapatnam, Krishnapatnam and Nellore, as part of efforts to strengthen Andhra Pradesh’s aquaculture sector and expand seafood exports. Addressing the National Workshop on Seafood Exports held in Visakhapatnam on Friday, the Chief Minister said the State is prepared to create the necessary ecosystem for the growth of aquaculture through improved infrastructure, technology, research, innovation and value addition. The two-day workshop is being organised by the Department of Fisheries under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, in collaboration with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, with support from the Andhra Pradesh government. Naidu noted the proposed aqua corridor would serve as a hub for research institutions, startups, innovation centres and processing facilities required for the sector’s expansion. The Chief Minister also announced plans to promote the “Andhra Shrimp, India Seafood” brand and called for coordinated efforts to enhance India’s presence in global seafood markets. Describing the Blue Economy as a key driver of future economic growth, the Chief Minister opined that the fisheries sector would play an important role in achieving the goals of Viksit Bharat. He stressed the need to work on the concepts of “Pond to Port”, “Farmer to Global Consumer” and “Blue Economy to Viksit Bharat”. Highlighting Andhra Pradesh’s strengths, Naidu said the State has a coastline of 1,053 kilometres and is supported by ports and airports that provide logistical advantages for seafood exports. “Andhra Pradesh contributes 28% of India’s fish production, and 66% of shrimp production, while accounting for nearly 38% of the country’s seafood export earnings. Annual seafood exports from the State exceed `28,000 crore,” the Chief Minister elaborated. 