--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 4627 - 6583
Word Count: 1,957
--------------------

[Page 5]
shape how collaborations occur – with whom, when, and why. The ca -
pacity of organizations seeking to identify modern slavery therefore 
depends on the available resources. We posit that such resources can be 
acquired and subsequently deployed through collaborative means, and 
is one important step towards risk mitigation and firm survival.
Some scholars have contended that RDT has confounded the separate 
dimensions of power imbalance or differentials between organizations 
and the idea of mutual dependence on each other in the construct of 
interdependence ( Casciaro and Piskorski, 2005 ). That is, organizations 
may leverage their extant power to increase their influence on others 
over time, thereby reducing their dependency (Shen et al., 2022). There 
is some merit to this claim, but as explained earlier our focus is primarily 
on mutual dependence. Nonetheless, we note that organizations with 
more power than others need not exercise or impose this power, espe -
cially when seeking legitimacy or societal acceptance around the issue of 
modern slavery. Organizations can build trust over time, especially 
when there are asymmetries in power and other resources between ac -
tors that collaborate ( Gulati and Sytch, 2007 ; Mosch et al., 2021 ). A 
meta-analysis of previous studies that have used RDT confirms this 
tendency by showing if organizations are primarily interested in 
improving their legitimacy, they create interorganizational collabora -
tions that create visible linkages with other reputable organizations; if 
organizations are primarily motivated to improve their autonomy, they 
create collaborations with other organizations that preserve their flexi -
bility (see Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). Moreoever, as Shiu et al. (2023 , p. 
9) have explained, “firms should not only manage their mutual de -
pendencies but also consider how their actions may affect indirect 
interfirm relationships beyond the direct mutual dependence itself”.
It is important to acknowledge that dependence within a RDT 
framework is sometimes considered undesirable ( Ozturk, 2021 , p. 547). 
However, there are certain costs with maintaining independence and 
autonomy when different organizational actors try to identify modern 
slavery. We argue that collaborations are fundamentally connected to 
purposes grounded in RDT. Collaborations ultimately come down to 
accessing valued resources held by others. In a modern slavery context, 
these resources can include financing, access, skills, and legitimacy. 
Each resource has a unique role in the process of identifying modern 
slavery. For example, skills (to perform auditing and investigation) are 
critical to identify modern slavery. Actors can (potentially) optimize the 
use of these skills (i.e., auditing skills, analytics skills, etc.) through 
collaboration and thus improve the likelihood of identifying modern 
slavery. Critics might contend that this may perpetuate an instrumental, 
rather than ethical, approach to the identification of modern slavery. 
However, the meta-analysis of RDT by Drees and Heugens (2013) con -
firms that the theory can also account for firm actions that are motivated 
by meeting societal norms and expectations as opposed to only 
addressing financial performance (survival). In this context, technolo -
gies can further leverage other resources. For example, monitoring 
technologies can support auditors on the ground (e.g., wearable com -
puters, apps for data collection) or can facilitate access to a larger pool of 
vulnerable respondents (e.g., through worker voice technologies). A 
representative overview of resources and their role in identifying mod -
ern slavery is shown in Table 2 .
The necessity of managing interorganizational relations is particu -
larly salient in global supply chains ( Mosch et al., 2021 ) given the 
prevalence of power and dependence noted above. Collaboration can 
bring together the resources that help firms achieve their strategic goals 
( Shiu et al., 2023 ), in this case identifying modern slavery. While col -
laborations and resources can change over time, the ability to identify 
modern slavery is grounded in mutual dependence. This is particularly 
salient in situations where formal authority is unlikely to be sufficient to 
address a highly complex problem. Identifying modern slavery requires 
substantial social capital, including the need for collective action to 
build trust, legitimacy, and capacity in difficult environments. The 
literature shows that mutual dependencies are more likely to emerge 
when firms cannot rely on formal authority and must build social capital 
( Shiu et al., 2023 ).
3. Methods
3.1. Research approach
Studies of modern slavery in supply chains remain in their embryonic 
stage and often struggle to secure access to robust and representative 
data. Modern slavery is also difficult to measure directly and it is often 
manifested through proxy indicators requiring significant judgment.
Our research question focused on how multi-actor collaborations can 
leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery. We are not 
focused on any particular monitoring technology (such as worker voice 
technologies or blockchain which was the objective of Jiang et al., 
2023 ); our aim is to explore how collaboration between actors such as 
employers, certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and other vested 
intermediaries might leverage these technologies to support identifying 
modern slavery in global supply chains. Our point of departure is that 
the research is best addressed by those with direct experience in iden -
tifying modern slavery. Our approach was guided, therefore, by gath -
ering detailed insights from experts in the field through a qualitative 
study.
3.2. Data sources and data collection
We approached experts that held leading roles in institutions with 
Table 2 
Illustrative examples of resources for identifying modern slavery.
Resource Importance of the 
resource for 
identifying modern 
slavery
The potential of 
collaboration to 
leverage the 
resource
The potential of 
technology to 
leverage the resource
Financing Resourcing of 
audits and 
investigations is 
critical
Collaborations can 
optimize allocation 
of financial 
resources to 
operationalize 
audits and 
investigations to 
identify modern 
slavery
Technologies can 
provide tools to 
increase efficiency of 
audits (i.e., audit 
platforms utilize data 
in multiple audits and 
address the issue of 
duplication of audits)
Access Access to local 
environments is 
critical for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Collaborations can 
provide access to 
local environments 
(e.g., access to local 
informants) to 
improve the 
potential for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Technologies 
facilitate access to 
respondents in 
locations (e.g., 
hotlines) and/or 
allow scaling up 
communication with 
local respondents (e. 
g., worker voice 
technologies)
Skills Auditing and 
investigative skills 
are an essential 
mechanism for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Collaborations can 
optimize the use of 
unique skills 
possessed by each 
actor (e.g., auditing 
skills, analytics 
skills, etc.) to 
improve the 
potential for the 
identification of 
modern slavery
Technologies provide 
support for actors to 
utilize their skills (e. 
g., auditors use 
wearable computers 
or use apps for data 
collection) and/or 
facilitate access to 
local data (e.g., data 
platforms can use 
analytics to 
determine hotspots)
Legitimacy Audits and 
investigations need 
to be perceived as 
legitimate
Collaborations can 
increase legitimacy 
of audits and 
investigations
Technologies can 
improve veracity and 
timeliness of audits 
and, hence, 
potentially 
strengthen the 
legitimacy of audits 
and investigations
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
5

[Page 6]
global outreach. For example, we spoke with purchasing directors 
directly involved in developing approaches to identify modern slavery in 
their complex supply chains. We also targeted experienced NGO di -
rectors who have overseen projects with numerous collaborators, 
including corporations, their suppliers, and other NGOs. We recruited 
senior experts responsible for overseeing certifications bodies and their 
activities. These individuals have access to numerous audit reports, data 
on grievances, and non-compliance, which provides them with unique 
insight into the problem. Overall, we recruited individuals directly 
involved in identifying modern slavery, particularly through using 
monitoring technology leveraged through collaborations.
While Table 3 lists the experts ’ role at the time of the study, many 
had progressive experience in a variety of roles directly related to our 
research question. For instance, while there were a large number of 
Table 3 
List of participants and interview details (n = 32).
Actor Group Role Outreach in global supply chains Years with the 
organization
# of 
interviews
Code
NGOs Co-director Co-leading a coalition of 30 plus organizations 12 years 2 MS1, 
MS5
Co-director Co-leading a coalition of 30 plus organizations 11 years 2 MS2, 
MS4
Program Director A knowledge platform addressing cross-boundary interactions; 
working mainly with financial services, apparel & footwear, 
hospitality providers and retailers
4 years 1 MS6
Director A leader in technology adoption to monitor human trafficking 7 years 1 MS11
Sustainability Director Provides research, training, consulting, and policy advocacy across a 
variety of sectors globally in over 70 countries
2 years 1 MS14
Managing Director A global NGO focusing on anti-trafficking projects concentrated in 
technology, financial crimes, and regulatory frameworks
11 years 1 MS21
Chief Impact Officer A global NGO operating across three continents in the conditions- 
domain
6 years 1 MS22
Chief Technical Advisor An agency bringing together governments, employers and workers 
addressing cross-boundary interactions
10 years 1 MS25
Senior Advisor Focusing of seafood industry; leads collaborative projects across the 
Asia Pacific region
3 years 1 MS30
Technical and Projects 
advisor
A global actor providing education, advocacy and third-party 
assurances in the seafood sector
18 years 1 MS32
Firms Director of Sustainability A global multinational company from the food industry with an 
extensive network of partners across both domains
5 years 1 MS10
Sustainability Director A global omni-channel retailer overseeing modern slavery in supply 
chains of global fashion brands
4 years 1 MS15
Sustainability Officer A global omni-channel retailer overseeing modern slavery in supply 
chains of global fashion brands
3 years 1 MS16
Group Ethical Sourcing 
Manager
A global food retailer overseeing modern slavery in food supply 
chains
3 years 1 MS19
Senior Human Rights 
Manager
A global food retailer overseeing modern slavery in food supply 
chains
5 years 1 MS20
Service provider – 
accreditation, certification 
body
President & CEO Providing governance over auditors ’ competence; a global outreach 
with insights into auditors ’ competence and compliance
6 years 1 MS9
Founder and Director Primarily an auditing firm assisting clients to develop compliance 
mechanisms
3 years 1 MS8
Social Project Manager A global governing body with insights into the performance of leading 
certifiers across 70 plus countries
1 year 1 MS13
Strategic Development 
Director
Leader of a team of global assessors that oversee a network of actors 
operating in various industries across 70 + countries
14 years 1 MS17
Manager A global actor providing education, advocacy, and third-party 
assurances in the seafood sector
5 years 1 MS31
Freelance Auditor An auditor with extensive experience with a global governance body, 
currently working as an auditor and auditor rights advocate
15 years 1 MS18
Service provider - 
technologies
Head of Social Research 
& UK Operations
A data platform provider working with multiple supply chain actors 
that share data and insights
4 years 1 MS12
Director of Programs A multi-channel mobile platform for engaging actors and measuring 
risks; working with energy, mining, agribusiness, and others
8 years 2 MS3, 
MS7
Senior Sustainability 
Expert
A data platform provider working with multiple supply chain actors 
that share data and insights
3 years 1 MS23
Service provider – 
consultancy, training & 
research
Vice President Asia 
Pacific
Provides research, training, consulting, and policy advocacy across a 
variety of sectors globally
9 years 1 MS24
Senior Program Director Provides research, training, consulting, and policy advocacy across a 
variety of sectors globally in over 70 countries
17 years 1 MS26
Executive Director and 
Founder
Focuses on loopholes in domestic and international legal regimes to 
hold companies accountable for abuses in their global supply chains
6 years 1 MS27
Senior Advisor A group of 70 plus organizations providing research, advisory and 
training services focusing on global health, economic development, 
and gender
6 years 1 MS28
Executive Director A director of a research centre leading research in modern slavery 
(with previous experience with a global regulatory body)
3 years 1 MS29
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
6