--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 1
Word Range: 1 - 250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 1]
Identifying modern slavery in global supply chains: Leveraging monitoring 
technologies through multi-actor collaboration
Cory Searcy
a , *
, Pavel Castka
b
, Grant Michelson
c
, Xiaoli Zhao
b
a
Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Canada
b
Xi ’ an Jiaotong - Liverpool University, Suzhou, China
c
Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords:
Modern slavery
Technology
Collaboration
Supply chains
Resource dependence theory
ABSTRACT
Monitoring technologies (e.g., worker voice technologies, remote sensors, satellite images) provide additional 
opportunities to improve the identification of modern slavery in supply chains. New collaborations among 
different actors are required to enable these technological capabilities. Yet little is understood about how 
collaboration between actors such as employers, certification and auditing bodies, non-governmental organi -
zations (NGOs), and other vested intermediaries leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery in 
global supply chains. Based on a qualitative inquiry of 32 interviews with leading actors in identifying modern 
slavery, we build upon two domains in the literature: the contracts domain and the conditions domain. Drawing 
on resource dependence theory (RDT), we show that valued resources (finance, access, skills, technology, and 
legitimacy) are held by various interdependent collaborators. We further show that identifying modern slavery 
can be enhanced through leveraging monitoring technologies embedded in collaborations, yet key contingencies 
(modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness) 
facilitate (or inhibit) such an outcome. The paper offers an empirically grounded understanding of collaboration 
mechanisms to detect modern slavery in global supply chains.
1. Introduction
Many companies have increased their efforts to identify modern 
slavery, supported by the growth of modern slavery and due diligence 
legislation around the world. However, the illegal nature of modern 
slavery, the difficulty of recognizing it in practice, and debates about the 
effectiveness of existing initiatives suggest legislation alone is insuffi -
cient ( Stevenson and Cole, 2018 ). Modern slavery is a contested term, 
but it fundamentally concerns the “ severe exploitation of other people 
for personal or commercial gain ” .
1
Severe exploitation remains all too 
common, with millions of people facing controls and limits on their 
freedom, harsh working conditions, and physical and emotional abuse. 
The International Labour Organization (ILO) estimates that as many as 
50 million people remain in modern slavery around the world ( ILO, 
2022 , p. 2).
Efforts to eliminate modern slavery in supply chains are increasingly 
being met by multi-actor collaborations ( Benstead et al., 2018 , 2021 ). 
While there can be differences between supply chains, these can involve 
collaborations between employers, certification and auditing bodies, 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and other vested in -
termediaries. However, the results are often poor, and even organiza -
tions that explicitly focus on addressing modern slavery find it 
challenging to tackle. For example, the chocolate company Tony ’ s 
Chocolonely has long been committed to eliminating child labour, 
forced labour, and human trafficking in its cocoa supply chain, yet it 
acknowledges the sector remains “ full of human rights violations ” .
2
The 
experience of Tony ’ s Chocolonely underlines the need for collaboration 
where all key actors take responsibility for eliminating abuses in the 
supply chain ( Pannekoek et al., 2023 ). Innovative approaches recog -
nizing the need for enhanced collaboration are urgently required to 
This article is part of a special issue entitled: Digitization for Purchasing and Supply published in Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management.
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: cory.searcy@torontomu.ca (C. Searcy), Pavel.Castka@xjtlu.edu.cn (P. Castka), grant.michelson@mq.edu.au (G. Michelson), Lilly.Zhao@xjtlu. 
edu.cn (X. Zhao). 
1
https://www.antislavery.org/slavery-today/modern-slavery/ .
2
https://us.tonyschocolonely.com/pages/our-promise#sectionid-2 .
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management
journal homep age: www. elsevier.com/ locate/purs up
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pursup.2025.101059
Received 17 March 2024; Received in revised form 21 July 2025; Accepted 3 August 2025  
Journal of Purchasing & Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
Available online 6 August 2025 
1478-4092/© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- 
nc-nd/4.0/ ).