--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C21
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 4 to Page 5
Word Range: 5001 - 5250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 4]
objective, but there are several potential barriers to collaboration that 
seek to leverage technology. Different technologies used by suppliers 
throughout a supply chain can be an important barrier to collaboration, 
but many potentially “ intractable ” barriers are rooted in people issues, 
such as “ culture, trust, aversion to change, and willingness to collabo -
rate ” ( Fawcett et al., 2008 ). Overcoming these barriers is essential to 
successfully leverage monitoring technologies in multi-actor collabora -
tions. For example, in a modern slavery context, an auditing firm may 
collaborate with NGOs for access to genuine employee perspectives or 
local communities ( Taylor and Shih, 2019 ). Technologies play a role in 
addressing collaborative challenges that exist between these actors. For 
instance, actors involved in supplier auditing are exposed to legitimacy 
risks due to poor timeliness and veracity in supplier auditing ( Castka 
et al., 2020 ). Data collection can be enabled through the use of mobile 
apps ( Locke, 2013 ), which allow for faster data exchange. Mobile apps 
and other technologies also permit the collection of greater amounts of 
data – in part mitigating bias ( Solymosi and Bowers, 2018 ). Machine 
learning and artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to identify patterns 
of trafficking and slavery in large datasets, making it easier to identify 
at-risk areas or at-risk individuals ( Land and Barry, 2021 ). Technology 
could thus help NGOs, firms, and regulatory agencies to share pertinent 
data and work together more effectively.
Technology, however, is not a panacea. There is potentially a dark 
side to the use of monitoring technology, such as strengthening the 
ability to control employees through surveillance or serving as a cover 
for minimal or no performance improvement ( Mol, 2010 ). Research is 
also emerging on the potential dissatisfaction in adopting supply chain 
technologies, such as blockchain, the Internet of Things (IoT), and 
artificial intelligence (AI) ( Sodhi et al., 2022 ). As Sodhi et al. (2022 , p. 
2517) explain, the perceived benefits “ depend on the interaction be -
tween technology and the users, not on the technology alone ” . This point 
is supported by Marques et al. (2024) , who demonstrated that, while 
blockchain is often promoted as a solution to supply chain transparency 
problems, this can be substantially undermined by a lack of trust be -
tween supply chain partners. Blockchain can also introduce additional 
unanticipated costs and risks ( Murray et al., 2021 ). Technology can thus 
create “ inflated expectations ” ( Sodhi et al., 2022 ) in supply chain 
management, including in the ability to identify modern slavery. Suc -
cessfully leveraging monitoring technology to identify modern slavery is 
therefore contingent on multi-actor collaborations grounded in trust, a 
genuine willingness to collaborate, and a recognition of its limitations.
2.4. Theoretical underpinnings
There are many actors (e.g., businesses, service providers, NGOs, 
auditors, employees, etc.) as identified by McLaren et al. (2024) , and 
monitoring technologies (e.g., blockchain, remote sensing and satellites, 
worker voice applications, etc.) that may be necessary to identify 
modern slavery. While institutional theory and global value chain the -
ory are the most frequently used theories in modern slavery and supply 
chains research ( Strand et al., 2024 , p. 6), we pursue a different line of 
inquiry. We draw on resource dependence theory (RDT) as a lens for our 
study. RDT understands control between firms from two perspectives: 
power imbalance and mutual dependence ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). While 
power imbalances exist within supply chains and can impact the ability 
to identify modern slavery, we regard this perspective as highly suited to 
accounting for competitive situations. Our focus in this study is on the 
mutual dependence perspective and its ability to explain multi-actor 
collaboration. Previous research has shown that mutual dependence 
has a positive impact on collaborative performance ( Casciaro and Pis -
korski, 2005 ; Shiu et al., 2023 ). Therefore, consistent with Shiu et al. 
(2023 , p. 2), we adopt the view that “ a firm needs to devote time and 
resources towards coordinating other firms in order to obtain resources 
for its strategic goals ” . The mutual dependence perspective underpins 
our theoretical approach, since it emphasizes the need for multiple ac -
tors, often spread across multiple jurisdictions, to work together to 
identify modern slavery.
RDT is primarily concerned with understanding and explaining firm 
survival. RDT argues that for an organization to survive, it must acquire 
valued and necessary resources, but that these resources are often held 
by others ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 1978 ). This creates uncertainty for or -
ganizations, precipitating them to manage their environmental uncer -
tainty and resource acquisition in different ways. Resources can be 
tangible or intangible assets that are viewed as organizational strengths 
( Wernerfelt, 1984 ). Resources could be direct, such as labour and raw 
materials, or they could be indirect, such as favourable legislation. Re -
sources could also be considered from the perspective of substantive 
resources, such as cash flow and technology, or symbolic resources, such 
as legitimacy and reputation ( Meyer and Rowan, 1977 ). Different or -
ganizations hold and control different resources and, to mitigate risks 
and survive, organizations must interact with other entities which 
control them ( Scott and Davis, 2015 ).
Organizations are conceptualized as open systems embedded in a 
network of interdependencies with other organizations ( Pfeffer and 
Salancik, 1978 ). The interdependence with other organizations lies in 
the availability of different (valued) resources and demand for them. For 
example, service providers require clients to use the technology they are 
selling to help identify modern slavery. NGOs require resources to fund 
their social objectives but also appreciate that firms value the legitimacy 
they can provide ( Michelson and Wray-Bliss, 2024 ). RDT helps explain 
which actors (and why) help provide valued resources – including 
monitoring technologies – at particular points in time (the when). 
Moreover, collaboration shows how different dependencies in modern 
slavery are managed. If we consider that modern slavery can threaten 
firms, specifically by exacerbating reputational and financial risk, the 
use of monitoring technology can either illuminate or conceal modern 
slavery practices ( Marques et al., 2024 ). It can therefore subsequently 
Table 1 
Illustrative examples of using technology to identify modern slavery in supply 
chains.
Category Illustrative examples of monitoring technologies and their use
Data 
collection
• Supply chain mapping technologies: platforms and tools that help 
companies visualize their supply chains based on data gathered 
on supplier locations, relationships, and product flows.
• Worker voice technologies and hotlines: facilitate direct reporting 
from workers on abuse, exploitation, and unsafe working 
conditions by collecting real-time data.
• Auditing technologies: use of digital platforms to manage audit 
data, including worker interviews, facility inspections, and 
document reviews.
• Satellite monitoring and remote sensing: collection of imagery 
and sensor-based data related to deforestation, illegal mining, and 
other activities that may be linked to modern slavery.
• Open data and publicly available resources: gathering data from 
government reports, NGO databases, social media, and news 
articles to identify risk factors.
Data 
exchange
• Blockchain technology: facilitates secure and transparent data 
exchange between different actors in the supply chain; allows for 
tracking products from origin to consumer and verifying claims 
related to ethical sourcing.
• Supplier ethical data exchange: enables companies to share 
responsible sourcing data with their suppliers and customers (e.g., 
Sedex).
• Cloud-based platforms: allows companies to share information 
about suppliers, audit results, and other relevant data with 
stakeholders, potentially in real-time.
Data 
analytics
• Big Data and AI-powered analytics: assemble large datasets from 
various sources (e.g., supply chain mapping, audits, worker re -
ports, news articles, etc.) to analyze data and identify high-risk 
suppliers or regions based on various indicators.
• Natural Language Processing: use of NLP to analyze text data (e. 
g., news articles, social media posts) to identify potential cases of 
modern slavery.
• Geospatial analysis: analyze geographical data to identify areas 
with high concentrations of vulnerable populations or industries 
known for forced/exploited workers.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
4

[Page 5]
shape how collaborations occur – with whom, when, and why. The ca -
pacity of organizations seeking to identify modern slavery therefore 
depends on the available resources. We posit that such resources can be 
acquired and subsequently deployed through collaborative means, and 
is one important step towards risk mitigation and firm survival.
Some scholars have contended that RDT has confounded the separate 
dimensions of power imbalance or differentials between organizations 
and the idea of mutual dependence on each other in the construct of 
interdependence ( Casciaro and Piskorski, 2005 ). That is, organizations 
may leverage their extant power to increase their influence on others 
over time, thereby reducing their dependency (Shen et al., 2022). There 
is some merit to this claim, but as explained earlier our focus is primarily 
on mutual dependence. Nonetheless, we note that organizations with 
more power than others need not exercise or impose this power, espe -
cially when seeking legitimacy or societal acceptance around the issue of 
modern slavery. Organizations can build trust over time, especially 
when there are asymmetries in power and other resources between ac -
tors that collaborate ( Gulati and Sytch, 2007 ; Mosch et al., 2021 ). A 
meta-analysis of previous studies that have used RDT confirms this 
tendency by showing if organizations are primarily interested in 
improving their legitimacy, they create interorganizational collabora -
tions that create visible linkages with other reputable organizations; if 
organizations are primarily motivated to improve their autonomy, they 
create collaborations with other organizations that preserve their flexi -
bility (see Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). Moreoever, as Shiu et al. (2023 , p. 
9) have explained, “firms should not only manage their mutual de -
pendencies but also consider how their actions may affect indirect 
interfirm relationships beyond the direct mutual dependence itself”.
It is important to acknowledge that dependence within a RDT 
framework is sometimes considered undesirable ( Ozturk, 2021 , p. 547). 
However, there are certain costs with maintaining independence and 
autonomy when different organizational actors try to identify modern 
slavery. We argue that collaborations are fundamentally connected to 
purposes grounded in RDT. Collaborations ultimately come down to 
accessing valued resources held by others. In a modern slavery context, 
these resources can include financing, access, skills, and legitimacy. 
Each resource has a unique role in the process of identifying modern 
slavery. For example, skills (to perform auditing and investigation) are 
critical to identify modern slavery. Actors can (potentially) optimize the 
use of these skills (i.e., auditing skills, analytics skills, etc.) through 
collaboration and thus improve the likelihood of identifying modern 
slavery. Critics might contend that this may perpetuate an instrumental, 
rather than ethical, approach to the identification of modern slavery. 
However, the meta-analysis of RDT by Drees and Heugens (2013) con -
firms that the theory can also account for firm actions that are motivated 
by meeting societal norms and expectations as opposed to only 
addressing financial performance (survival). In this context, technolo -
gies can further leverage other resources. For example, monitoring 
technologies can support auditors on the ground (e.g., wearable com -
puters, apps for data collection) or can facilitate access to a larger pool of 
vulnerable respondents (e.g., through worker voice technologies). A 
representative overview of resources and their role in identifying mod -
ern slavery is shown in Table 2 .
The necessity of managing interorganizational relations is particu -
larly salient in global supply chains ( Mosch et al., 2021 ) given the 
prevalence of power and dependence noted above. Collaboration can 
bring together the resources that help firms achieve their strategic goals 
( Shiu et al., 2023 ), in this case identifying modern slavery. While col -
laborations and resources can change over time, the ability to identify 
modern slavery is grounded in mutual dependence. This is particularly 
salient in situations where formal authority is unlikely to be sufficient to 
address a highly complex problem. Identifying modern slavery requires 
substantial social capital, including the need for collective action to 
build trust, legitimacy, and capacity in difficult environments. The 
literature shows that mutual dependencies are more likely to emerge 
when firms cannot rely on formal authority and must build social capital 
( Shiu et al., 2023 ).
3. Methods
3.1. Research approach
Studies of modern slavery in supply chains remain in their embryonic 
stage and often struggle to secure access to robust and representative 
data. Modern slavery is also difficult to measure directly and it is often 
manifested through proxy indicators requiring significant judgment.
Our research question focused on how multi-actor collaborations can 
leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery. We are not 
focused on any particular monitoring technology (such as worker voice 
technologies or blockchain which was the objective of Jiang et al., 
2023 ); our aim is to explore how collaboration between actors such as 
employers, certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and other vested 
intermediaries might leverage these technologies to support identifying 
modern slavery in global supply chains. Our point of departure is that 
the research is best addressed by those with direct experience in iden -
tifying modern slavery. Our approach was guided, therefore, by gath -
ering detailed insights from experts in the field through a qualitative 
study.
3.2. Data sources and data collection
We approached experts that held leading roles in institutions with 
Table 2 
Illustrative examples of resources for identifying modern slavery.
Resource Importance of the 
resource for 
identifying modern 
slavery
The potential of 
collaboration to 
leverage the 
resource
The potential of 
technology to 
leverage the resource
Financing Resourcing of 
audits and 
investigations is 
critical
Collaborations can 
optimize allocation 
of financial 
resources to 
operationalize 
audits and 
investigations to 
identify modern 
slavery
Technologies can 
provide tools to 
increase efficiency of 
audits (i.e., audit 
platforms utilize data 
in multiple audits and 
address the issue of 
duplication of audits)
Access Access to local 
environments is 
critical for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Collaborations can 
provide access to 
local environments 
(e.g., access to local 
informants) to 
improve the 
potential for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Technologies 
facilitate access to 
respondents in 
locations (e.g., 
hotlines) and/or 
allow scaling up 
communication with 
local respondents (e. 
g., worker voice 
technologies)
Skills Auditing and 
investigative skills 
are an essential 
mechanism for 
identifying modern 
slavery
Collaborations can 
optimize the use of 
unique skills 
possessed by each 
actor (e.g., auditing 
skills, analytics 
skills, etc.) to 
improve the 
potential for the 
identification of 
modern slavery
Technologies provide 
support for actors to 
utilize their skills (e. 
g., auditors use 
wearable computers 
or use apps for data 
collection) and/or 
facilitate access to 
local data (e.g., data 
platforms can use 
analytics to 
determine hotspots)
Legitimacy Audits and 
investigations need 
to be perceived as 
legitimate
Collaborations can 
increase legitimacy 
of audits and 
investigations
Technologies can 
improve veracity and 
timeliness of audits 
and, hence, 
potentially 
strengthen the 
legitimacy of audits 
and investigations
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
5