--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C48
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 12110 - 12359
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
people they’re working with and set corrective actions and help to 
improve things. So, I think it’s more about having agency and 
ownership of projects to enable suppliers to feel confident in 
participating.” MS12
Data collection is ultimately underpinned by trust and is only as 
effective if it is transparent and empowers workers to safely share their 
views. In the absence of such conditions, workers may not participate or 
may provide biased feedback, thus undermining efforts to identify 
modern slavery. 
“If you’re collecting people’s data and you are collecting very sen -
sitive information about the labour conditions, you’re asking them to 
make complaints or you are recording grievances that they’ve raised, 
if that information gets into the wrong hands, gets into the hands of 
the very people that are abusing these people or you know, gets into 
the wrong hands in any other way, that can then create a risk for that 
person, and this is one of, this is one of the kind of big reasons why 
some worker voice apps really struggled to, to take off because 
workers are nervous to, to use them […] That risk may even be 
further perpetuated if you’re talking about ethnic minorities, 
migrant workers, or even kind of illegal migrants, who don’t want to 
be identified …” MS6
Without confidence their data is protected, workers may not report 
on issues such as if they are regularly paid on-time, if they paid a 
recruitment fee, or if they retain access to their personal identification 
documents.
4.3. Cross-boundary interactions
Notwithstanding the distinctions between the domains, the con -
tracts- and conditions-focused domains are neither disconnected nor 
operate in isolation. The domains are co-existing, and both can 
contribute to identifying modern slavery in supply chains over time. We 
found several indications that collaborations emerge across these 
seemingly separate domains, particularly when the collaborations 
emphasize identifying modern slavery, rather than focusing on 
achieving aims congruent with their domains (e.g., legitimization of 
modern slavery initiatives through auditing and certification as 
observed in the contracts-focused domain).
We found evidence that cross-boundary interactions can leverage 
domain-specific resources and provide unique opportunities for collab -
orations for actors from each domain. For example, for firms a collab -
oration with NGOs or other actors from the conditions-domain can lead 
to increased effectiveness of audits – arguably leading to increased 
legitimacy. Facility audits are good examples of such collaboration as 
they can have serious limitations. In many cases, audits are limited to 
the grounds or specific activities of a facility (typical in a contracts- 
focused approach), but may benefit from exploring linkages to 
external resources held by the broader community and seek insights 
from multiple sources of data (typical in a conditions-focused approach). 
Facility audits are usually announced well in advance, meaning a facility 
manager can ‘set’ the scene. If the managers/owners purposefully 
conceal evidence, it could be extremely difficult for an auditor to 
identify modern slavery. For example: 
“We found by very, very conservative estimates that a third of 
migrant workers were enforced labour. Whereas we found that au -
dits found that less than 1 % of workers were forced labour. I think 
that the difference there is once audits are on site; they’re pre- 
announced, there may be worker coaching.” MS26
These are serious vulnerabilities, but the effectiveness of audits im -
proves through collaboration with actors having expertise and resources 
within the conditions-focused domain. Such actors (e.g., local NGOs or 
communities) may not necessarily be aware of the specific compliance 
mechanisms an auditor follows. However, they can provide broader 
insights into the working conditions at a facility that can inform an 
auditor about ‘hidden’ problems. Such collaborations provide access to 
critical resources, such as ‘informal’ channels and first-hand data, that is 
typically difficult to obtain. They also highlight the unique resources 
different actors possess and the mutual dependencies in high veracity 
audits.
Boundary spanning activities can help an auditor to focus on matters 
that are important, but not necessarily directly observable. However, 
boundary spanning activities require a clear mandate and resources 
from a firm or the auditing organization to enable auditors to engage in 
them. We found that some firms engage in these activities, yet there are 
still several conditions, such as the modern slavery posture of the firm 
and the experience of the auditor. As one interviewee explained: 
“Experienced auditors are typically OK. They will check the back -
ground, we will get the information from the previous audit or what 
is happening, a Google search in the area, see if there is any issue 
with that particular facility, then he will go in. [An] inexperienced 
auditor will jump into the facility [unprepared] and he will say that 
‘everything is okay’.” MS18
Cross-boundary interactions, however, must be supported by a 
greater range of resources than activities confined to one domain alone. 
For example, auditors conducting a boundary-spanning audit will 
require a wider set of skills, knowledge, and experience to gather, 
analyze, and interpret the broader types of evidence provided in each 
domain. Gathering boundary-spanning evidence will, in turn, require 
increased financing to support the broader scope of activities, access to 
people in a wider range of contexts (e.g., facilities, communities), and 
the legitimacy that enables such access. Finding auditors with the ability 
to conduct boundary spanning audits can be challenging, however, and 
points to the need for new forms of auditor training. As one expert 
remarked: 
“There are social compliance auditors out there and they’re trained 
to look for social non-compliance. But a lot of the auditors who are 
out there might have a technical background. […] They can see if 
there’s live wires or slippery falls and things like that. That’s phys -
ical; that’s tangible; but forced labour indicators are non-tangible. 
They find it incredibly hard to detect and the interview techniques 
that you need to use to detect these things when you go out and 
actually speak with management and workers are so different from 
what they’re used to. […] Building capacity [is] a really long and 
slow process and incredibly frustrating.” MS25
We also found examples of firms operating in both domains. For 
example, a large seafood firm engaged in a contracts-focused approach 
through social compliance auditing, but also hired local NGOs to 
investigate labour hiring practices and observe the well-being of 
workers (especially migrant workers), indicating a conditions-focused 
approach. Sharing the results from one approach potentially benefits 
the other. Other actors, such as NGOs, can operate in either domain, but 
can also explicitly focus on facilitating knowledge transfer from one 
domain to another.
Collaborating across boundaries also has ramifications for how ac -
tors leverage monitoring technologies to improve the likelihood of 
identifying modern slavery. Here, data analytics provides great promise 
in identifying modern slavery, though its use in that context remains in 
the early stages. For data analytics to work well, however, it depends on 
the data collection and data exchange and their integration into the data 
analytics process. Data analytics is not only about crunching data; it is 
about using and exchanging the results between actors to facilitate the 
flow of information. This underscores the importance of aligning ac -
tivities across collaborators and domains. As one respondent asserted: 
“Technology has a role to play, but for us is more like how you 
implement flows of information with workers and about the workers 
both ways. So then, it’s about transparency […] but you first need to 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
10