--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C64
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 16374 - 16623
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 14]
Previous studies have demonstrated that actors tend to focus on 
developing collaborations that assist them in advancing their strategic 
goals ( Shiu et al., 2023 ); for example by developing dyadic relationships 
with individual actors such as certifiers ( Castka et al., 2015 ). Organi -
zations operating in such institutional environments thus primarily seek 
to maintain their autonomy ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). In the context of 
modern slavery, the autonomy is, in part, preserved by membership in a 
particular institutional domain (i.e., contracts-focused domain). Our 
study has extended understanding of the contracts-focused and 
conditions-focused domains (i.e. Simpson et al., 2021 ), establishing the 
conditions under which actors are more likely to leverage monitoring 
technologies and develop mutual dependencies commensurate with 
relevant strategic goals. We also identified micro- and macro-levels of 
collaboration as well as collaborations within and between the domains 
(see Table 5 ).
The common perspective of RDT is to focus on the performance of the 
dependent (focal) organization, as earlier reviews and meta-analyses 
have widely observed ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ; Hillman et al., 2009 ; 
Ozturk, 2021 ). Our study of collaboration and technology extends the 
focus of RDT to a multi-actor context, while providing theoretical con -
tributions to the mutual dependence perspective of RDT. RDT’s mutual 
dependence perspective has often been used in contexts where “firm 
autonomy (fear of dependency) is no longer the key goal of firms in 
acquiring external resources” ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). Meta-organizations or 
other forms of decentralized multi-actor networks tend to focus on 
persuasion to commit others to exchange resources rather than using 
power ( Shiu et al., 2023 ). Few actors alone are unlikely to possess all of 
the resources needed to identify modern slavery, demonstrating the 
need to acquire important resources held by others ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 
1978 ).
5.3. Practical implications
This study provides implications for a range of actor groups such as 
managers at firms, as well as for auditors, other service providers (i.e., 
organizations providing audit platforms), NGOs, and policymakers. For 
example, managers should seek applications of context-appropriate 
technology to identify modern slavery throughout their supply chains, 
noting that success will be contingent on obtaining resources held by a 
wide range of actors. This will require creating connections and transi -
tions across the micro- and macro-levels of collaboration. Moreover, 
collaborations supporting (and supported by) technology could help 
reduce the ‘psychological distance’ of modern slavery. For example, 
psychological distance can be reduced with access to timely, high ve -
racity information that “help bring events of persons perceptually 
‘closer’ to a decision-maker” ( Simpson et al., 2021 ). Worker voice 
technologies, for instance, can enable real-time data on labor conditions 
that help bring the experiences of workers that are typically far removed 
spatially and socially from managers, policymakers, or customers.
Beyond managers, there are many related implications for auditors 
and other service providers. While using monitoring technology is not 
about replacing human auditors, there are many ways it can impact how 
auditors perform their jobs. Auditor training, for example, must reflect 
the greater range of potential sources of evidence provided through 
technological applications ( Castka and Searcy, 2023 ). Moreover, the 
boundary spanning activities across the conditions- and 
contracts-focused domains enabled by collaboration, technology, and 
other resources could provide a key differentiator in the services offered 
by different auditors ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ).
There are also several related implications for other actors, including 
governments and NGOs. Governments, for example, should continue to 
enact legislation focused on modern slavery in supply chains, while 
being mindful that legislation alone will not identify it. Governments 
can take additional action, such as establishing trusted hotlines and 
supporting technological investments (such as through tax incentives) 
intended to identify modern slavery. Different NGOs will clearly have 
different areas of focus and hold different resources, but examples could 
include focusing on enabling local access to communities, standardizing 
data collection protocols, providing trusted platforms for data exchange, 
and developing hotspot identification capabilities. Critically, all actors 
must recognize the challenges of identifying modern slavery working on 
their own, and that this goal is best achieved by explicitly recognizing 
mutual dependencies and actively working with others to build 
collaborations.
5.4. Limitations and future research
Building on RDT, this research illuminated the interdependencies 
between actors and resources through original empirical evidence 
gathered in a modern slavery context. However, our study also had 
limitations, which provides insight into several potential areas for future 
research.
Our study used experts from multiple settings and the results should 
be seen as an aggregated framework of the shared experiences of these 
actors. Our results thus describe the circumstances under which multi- 
actor collaborations typically leverage monitoring technologies to ach -
ieve their strategic goals. The conceptual framework is explicitly pre -
sented as a building block for future work. Additionally, we did not 
attempt to identify any ‘weight’ that should be allocated against each of 
the four key contingencies we identified. Further research on the relative 
importance of different contingencies in different contexts (e.g., in terms 
of sector/region/types of supply chains/types of technologies) would be 
valuable. Locational differences, for example, are an important dimen -
sion that shape resource dependencies in unique ways including, for 
example, rates of corruption, historical or political ties, and the level of 
trade dependence between countries ( Jiang, H. et al., 2023 ). This means 
some variance in both the nature and effectiveness of collaboration 
across modern slavery contexts is likely given different country-specific 
dependencies. Research that explores such nuances will further our 
understanding of this important area.
Our study focused on identifying modern slavery. This, however, is 
only the start of efforts to address modern slavery in supply chains. 
Future research should focus on how modern slavery can be reduced and 
eliminated following its identification. The role of collaboration in 
facilitating the remediation of modern slavery is underexplored. While 
eliminating modern slavery in practice will likely require many key 
actors working together ( McLaren et al., 2024 ), further underlining the 
applicability of RDT’s mutual dependency perspective, it is also likely to 
require a strong understanding of power imbalance in the supply chain. 
Our study did not address the power imbalance perspective of RDT, but 
it could be an additional approach for considering actions to eliminate 
modern slavery. In particular, future studies can explore the circum -
stances under which actors are coerced into particular domain mem -
bership and whether such coercive mechanisms would change the 
dynamics of multi-actor collaboration, i.e., in general or specifically in 
terms of the choice of technologies adopted.
Finally, case studies on real-world applications of monitoring tech -
nologies in a modern slavery context are needed. This could include on- 
the-ground investigations of the benefits and challenges of using tech -
nology in different modern slavery settings. This would also provide 
further opportunity to study the contingencies in leveraging monitoring 
technologies through multi-actor collaboration, as well as an opportu -
nity to study how collaborations evolve over time.
6. Conclusion
One of the reasons modern slavery persists is that it can be very 
difficult to identify in practice. Modern slavery is often embedded deep 
in supply chains far from public scrutiny. This creates a “psychological 
distance” between consumers, people experiencing modern slavery, and 
supply chain managers. Given its illegality in most jurisdictions, the 
prevalence of modern slavery in global supply chains is often actively 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
14