--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C58
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 14732 - 14981
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 12]
5. Discussion
Our study provides several contributions, including further evidence 
on the existence of the contracts- and conditions-focused domains, as 
well as extending understanding of those domains with evidence of 
micro- and macro-levels of collaborations and boundary spanning col -
laborations. Importantly, our study also identified four key contin -
gencies facilitating or inhibiting the identification of modern slavery by 
leveraging monitoring technologies through collaborations. In this sec -
tion, we discuss a conceptual framework grounded in our analysis and 
discuss the contribution of our work to the literature.
5.1. Conceptual framework
Our findings provide the foundation for developing a conceptual 
framework for leveraging technology through collaboration to identify 
modern slavery ( Fig. 1 ). Our framework explains how multi-actor col -
laborations can leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern 
slavery – facilitated (or inhibited) by four key contingencies (i.e., 
modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross-boundary in -
teractions, and contextual embeddedness).
As shown in Fig. 1 , the framework recognizes the contracts-focused 
and conditions-focused domains. In the contracts-focused domain, 
multiple actors develop collaborations and exchange resources to 
further their strategic goal of confirming the absence of modern slavery. 
The collaborations and resources required to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery are based in the modern slavery posture of the actors. 
The collaboration scope can, therefore, vary from one supply chain to 
another, potentially addressing collaborations at the micro- and macro- 
levels. Grounded in RDT, these collaborations will be focused on 
ensuring the necessary resources are available to confirm the absence of 
modern slavery. In other words, the actors seek collaborations that 
address resource needs congruent with their strategic goals. As actors ’ 
motivation to identify modern slavery increases, collaborations have the 
potential to broaden in scope at the micro- and macro-levels to ensure 
that the needed resources are available to address those needs. This 
exchange of resources includes technological solutions, such as worker 
voice technologies, hotlines, or exchange of data through auditing 
platforms. The contracts-focused domain, therefore, demonstrates the 
linkage between modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, and effi -
ciently leveraging monitoring technologies through collaboration to 
confirm the absence of modern slavery in a supply chain.
The conditions-focused domain has the strategic goal of confirming 
the presence (where it exists) of modern slavery. This domain also 
originates from modern slavery posture, which is grounded in an actor ’ s 
purposeful decision to explicitly identify modern slavery. Recognizing 
modern slavery posture as a starting point for both domains underscores 
the potential for cross-boundary interactions. The framework, therefore, 
recognizes that the contracts- and conditions-focused domains are co- 
existing and can both contribute to identifying modern slavery. The 
framework also recognizes that collaborations can bring mutually 
dependent resources (such as trusted local informants) to bear through 
both domains, as well as across the micro- and macro-levels. Moreover, 
the conditions-focused domain requires that cross-boundary collabora -
tion is tailored to the unique supply chain context. Identifying the 
presence of modern slavery, particularly in cases where it is concealed, 
requires an approach specifically applicable to the context of the unique 
circumstances of that supply chain. These tailored approaches can 
include monitoring technologies leveraged through multi-actor collab -
oration. Starting from modern slavery posture, this domain therefore 
demonstrates the linkage between cross-boundary interactions, 
contextual embeddedness and effectively leveraging monitoring tech -
nologies through collaboration to confirm the presence of modern 
slavery (where it exists) in supply chains.
5.2. Contributions to the literature and theory
Our study supports the literature showing that collaborations are 
driven by a pursuit of strategic goals through recognizing and devel -
oping mutual dependencies (e.g., Berkowitz et al., 2020 ; Kretschmer 
et al., 2022 ). In the modern slavery literature, this pursuit is commen -
surate with identifying modern slavery in the contracts-focused and 
conditions-focused domains ( Simpson et al., 2021 ), with the former 
associated with confirming the absence of modern slavery, and the latter 
associated with confirming the presence of modern slavery. Our study 
also shows that RDT is a valuable outcomes focused approach (see Oli -
veira et al., 2022 ), which helps to explain the advantage provided by 
collaboration among different key actors to identify modern slavery. 
Technology adoption in collaborations is also influenced by the strategic 
goals of collaborating actors. Consequently, collaborations based around 
technologies can advance positive outcomes, such as increased veracity 
and timeliness of monitoring activities in supply chains ( Castka et al., 
2020 ; Reid and Castka, 2023 ), but also potentially lead to concealment 
and legitimization of illegal or unethical activities, such as increased 
control over the workforce ( Mol, 2010 ). While previous studies have 
alluded to some aspects of collaboration in the context of modern 
slavery ( Gold et al., 2015 ) or investigated the adoption of technological 
solutions in this context ( Marques et al., 2024 ), this research widens our 
understanding about strategic actions of actors through collaborations, 
with a specific focus on monitoring technologies (see Table 6 ).
At a more nuanced level, we expand the literature by demonstrating 
how four key contingencies (i.e., modern slavery posture, collaboration 
scope, cross-boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness) 
facilitate (or inhibit) leveraging monitoring technologies embedded in 
collaborations. First, our evidence reveals that the posture taken by 
different actors will shape why collaborations occur and the type of 
Fig. 1. Conceptual framework for leveraging monitoring technology through collaboration to identify modern slavery.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
12