--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C39
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 8 to Page 9
Word Range: 9783 - 10032
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 8]
around our four key contingencies, focusing on how they facilitate (or 
inhibit) identifying modern slavery by leveraging monitoring technol -
ogies through multi-actor collaboration. Collectively, the findings pro -
vide a basis for directly answering our research question.
4.1. Modern slavery posture
Modern slavery posture refers to the reason why an organization 
pursues collaboration. There are many reasons why various actors in 
supply chains do not want modern slavery to be found. For example, it 
can be highly profitable for those exploiting others. However, they could 
also be severely punished if it is located, such as reputational risk for a 
firm, or criminal liability for an individual. Motivation is thus impactful 
in determining the modern slavery posture of any given actor – a firm, 
auditing body or NGO. This is illustrated by the following quote: 
“In terms of how difficult is it to find, it is. It depends on whether 
you’re looking for it and it depends on whether you want to find it.” 
MS4
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide contrasting 
environments in which modern slavery is identified. We note that many 
interviewees indicated the existence of these domains, though the ter -
minology used to describe them varied. For example: 
“I think those are kind of the two camps that I’ve noticed. One kind 
tends to be used to cater to corporations’ risk-based approach and 
then the NGOs tend to come in for more continuous improvement 
approach. Or not necessarily always NGOs, they could be consul -
tancies, they could be social enterprises, but I think there’s a bit more 
potentially, a more holistic approach to looking at the root cause 
rather than a compliance-based approach.” MS7
In the contracts-focused domain, firms seek collaborations and 
secure resources predominantly to acquire compliance with standards 
and other reference points. In fact, respondents frequently referred to 
this domain as the “compliance-domain” in the interviews. Firms are 
increasingly pushed to address modern slavery through audits, certifi -
cations, and other compliance mechanisms and look for actors that can 
provide such services. We also heard many comments about audits 
focused on confirming the absence of modern slavery, in many cases as a 
mechanism to avoid trouble. To illustrate, 
“I think that the compliance-based approach is very familiar to 
companies. So, I think many of them still seek social audits as from a 
compliance-based perspective and a risk mitigation, risk minimiza -
tion perspective. But there is definitely a trend now and a lot of 
spotlight on companies that move away from trouble, some suppliers 
or regions or commodities, rather than actually working with the 
supply chain to improve it.” MS7
The contracts domain is thus characterized by actors whose primary 
interest is in confirming the absence of modern slavery in their supply 
chains, not necessarily identifying (and remediating) it. Moreover, this 
domain is dominated by firms and service providers. Although other 
actors might get involved (e.g., an NGO might assist with data collec -
tion), this involvement tends to be limited or reduced to symbolic col -
laborations. Notably, and consistent with RDT, the firms and service 
providers have significant control and discretion over the allocation of 
resources and their use. For example, the audits (and related data) have 
a commercial value, which is protected and leveraged for the benefit of 
participating actors (i.e., a certificate demonstrates absence of modern 
slavery). Actors in the contracts-focused domain are primarily con -
cerned with improvements of the audit process, such as cost-cutting or 
audit integration.
In the conditions-focused domain, actors are interested in identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (and then working to remediate it). This 
domain is dominated by NGOs, labour unions, and other actors whose 
raison d’etre is different from firms seeking compliance and 
certification. These actors also employ different mechanisms to identify 
modern slavery: there is less focus on audits and more focus on inves -
tigative work and working with local communities as the following 
quote illustrates: 
“NGOs are going to identify [modern slavery] better, but also it’s not 
just sort of putting a red dot on a map to say there is forced labour 
there. An NGO is going to do a better job of working with a local 
community and identifying what the appropriate remedy is. Because, 
in the end what’s going to prevent forced labour in a particular in -
dustry or what’s going to stop existing forced labour or what’s going 
to remedy forced labour is kind of context specific.” MS27
Recognizing the two modern slavery domains has important rami -
fications for selecting collaborating partners since each domain has 
different aims and approaches to identifying modern slavery. From a 
RDT perspective, for instance, it means that actors seek to secure 
different resources and align (or naturally drift toward) a domain that 
provides such resources and which allows the actors control over the 
allocation of resources for their intended purpose. An example might be 
a firm that seeks to legitimize practices in their supply chains (but not 
necessarily improve these practices), is likely to collaborate with actors 
that provide such service. Consequently, the selection and adaptation of 
technologies also serves as a tool to leverage the legitimization of supply 
chain practices. For example, worker voice technologies (WVT) can be 
used to actively conceal labour issues by careful selection of participants 
or through persecution of whistle blowers. Hotlines can be similarly 
used to monitor the workforce and identify workers the company may 
view as problematic. Conversely, technologies supporting more genuine 
motivations can have the opposite effect.
The adoption of specific monitoring technologies is driven by the 
objectives of the collaboration. For example, an organization may seek 
improvements to its data collection process to achieve greater audit 
efficiency – a typical approach for actors operating in the contracts 
focused domain. Actors involved in audits can benefit from the digita -
lization of the audit process enabled by various technologies (e.g., data 
collection platforms; phone-based apps, etc.). As the following quote 
illustrates, this can enhance audit efficiency: 
“I think technology in the audit process, I mean certainly one thing 
that’s helped is for the auditors to be able to answer the questions. On 
their audit protocol for them to be able to go through and answer 
those questions you know kind of in real time. And you know just 
save them time and energy and also as soon as you’re writing a piece 
of paper and transferring it. […] The fact that the reports get auto -
matically uploaded to [audit platform X] or [audit platform Y] or 
whomever I think that’s also really helpful …” MS9
4.2. Collaboration scope
We found two principal modes of collaborations: micro-level collab -
orations enable identifying modern slavery at a facility level, whilst 
macro-level collaborations enable the same at a regional or national level. 
In both domains, collaborations to secure resources and capabilities 
emerge at these two levels. In the contracts-focused domain, collabo -
rations emerge to enhance the efficiency of compliance mechanisms, 
such as audits. In the conditions-focused domain, the focus was on 
mobilizing communities to identify modern slavery (see Table 5 ). Cross 
boundary collaboration is also possible, as we explore in Section 4.3 .
Collaborations engaged in by each actor depends on the modern 
slavery posture. For example, audits performed at individual facilities 
could be used for multiple purposes – an activity typical for the 
contracts-focused domain. This is a focus of so-called audit platforms – 
data collection and exchange mechanisms, which are developed to 
enable an exchange of insights gained through an audit at one facility to 
inform further insights for various supply chain actors, who use the same 
facility. If actors collaborate across the micro- and macro-levels, audit 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
8

[Page 9]
results and other data can be shared to explicitly serve the interests of 
multiple actors. This means that audit requirements can reflect the needs 
of multiple actors; an integrated audit can therefore cover areas that 
would normally require multiple audits, thus contributing to audit 
optimization. The connection between the modern slavery posture, se -
lection of a collaborator, and choice of monitoring technology is high -
lighted by the following quote: 
“So, where we’ve partnered with people, like [software platform], 
….. They had a very similar mindset to us. We set up us originally 
because we recognized that there were so many different platforms, 
so many different certifications, everything like that. And then sup -
pliers are just exhausted because they’re having to answer every -
thing separately, I mean that’s a full-time job for a few people.” MS12
The collaborations in the conditions-focused domain tend to involve 
multiple actors who collaborate for a ‘greater good’. These collabora -
tions, which underscore mutual dependencies in building capacity and 
social capital in service of the larger goal of identifying modern slavery, 
can also occur at both the micro- and macro-levels. At a micro-level, 
these collaborations aim to interlink local and other actors. To provide 
one example that was raised serveral times in our interviews, an NGO 
may work with local communities to gain on-the-ground insights on the 
labour conditions of workers. At a macro-level, the actors collaborate to 
identify modern slavery in a particular location, but also work together 
to collect insights across regions and identify hotspots of modern 
slavery. If hotspots are identified in a particular area, the insights can be 
used for local actors to follow-up and investigate. Importantly, these 
insights are rarely developed by any one actor on their own, further 
underscoring mutual dependencies. 
“The technology has enabled not only to facilitate expedited opera -
tion of the hotline, but also [to] connect the resources through these 
different platforms of Salesforce and volunteers and do this heat 
map, where the situation and geospatial location, etc., […] We 
analyze all these different sorts of information that we’re gathering 
from the interaction with survivors of trafficking to sort of identify 
certain trends, when [the] same addresses and information about 
trafficking comes [up] over and over so, then we can eventually 
develop customized packages for law enforcement about information 
about traffickers, never about victims because [of] confidentiality.” 
MS11
The collaborations across micro- and macro-levels enable exchange 
of insights and data for mutual benefit. Technology can enable the ex -
change of insights (such as data or results of analytics). Whilst the free 
flow of data is essential for collaborations, the flow of data is often 
difficult to achieve. To start with, standardization of data collection is 
critical, and this will be based on the need to coordinate and collaborate 
with many actors. Many respondents explained that the lack of data 
format standards and standardized data collection processes hampered 
effective data exchange between actors: 
“So one of the kind of main criticisms of the social audit world is lack 
of standardization in the questions that are being asked and the data 
that’s being collected. […] It’s really, really hard then to kind of 
amalgamate that data together and make comparisons if everybody’s 
looking at different things at different times …” MS6
In part, the exchange of data is influenced by a willingness of indi -
vidual actors to collaborate. This willingness is often grounded in the 
trust, or lack thereof, between potential collaborators. For example, 
complicated agreements over who owns the data may prevent collabo -
ration. An illustration is whether service providers of worker voice 
technologies (WVT) own the collected data. Depending on any partic -
ular agreement, they may collaborate on projects where they are in 
control of the data or outsource their technology to actors who own (yet 
not further share) the data.
Other monitoring technological solutions may have fewer pro -
prietary restrictions. For example, satellites are increasingly being used 
to monitor large geographic areas (e.g., forests, shrimp farms, food 
processing facilities). While not necessarily definitive, this type of data 
can highlight potential risks requiring further investigation, mindful of 
the cost of acquiring this data. The benefit of using it is that local actors 
could be alerted to verify any concerns, as the following explains: 
“We have a couple of projects where we’re looking at using satellite 
imagery of monitoring forests. […] There’s some kind of the satellite 
spots deforestation, a quick survey goes out to a group of, you know, 
at local community members asking them, hey, what’s going on? Can 
you find out? That kind of triangulation of data I think is kind of the 
future of integrating these technologies together because if we’re all 
collecting information in silos and not sharing, we’re not really 
leveraging.” MS7
Technology can also enable firms to push data collection deep into 
their supply chains, including well beyond the first tier. This requires 
technological interoperability, but it also requires trust throughout the 
chain on how the data will be collected and used, particularly given the 
sensitivities around an issue like modern slavery. Financial and infor -
mational resources must thus be supported by trust, legitimacy, and an 
understanding of local contexts. In cases where trust-building is at an 
early stage, monitoring technology can enable anonymous reporting, 
which could compromise identification of issues at the micro-level, but 
might enable improved analytics at the macro-level – as illustrated by 
the following quote: 
“So it’s the lower tiers where most of the risk is because the funding 
and the work isn’t getting down that far. But if I was a tier one 
supplier and I don’t want to be cut out with the supply chain, how do 
I share that information with my brands at all? I think that allowing 
anonymous reporting is important so that you can at least find the 
risks and then figure out where to go for those suppliers that are 
particularly edgy about working with the suppliers to capacity 
building […] But then letting the suppliers have hold of that data, 
you know in our system if it’s multi tier. The tier one supplier gets to 
crunch all of the data and run analytics on their suppliers, and it 
trickles down the chain. They can look at what’s going on with the 
Table 5 
Collaborations for identifying modern slavery.
Contracts-focused domain Conditions-focused domain
Micro-level 
collaborations
Collaborations to enable 
audits at facilities
Collaborations to interlink 
local communities and 
workers
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
compliance against a standard
PRIMARY FOCUS: To mobilize 
(and give voice to) local 
communities to assist in 
revealing modern slavery
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Monitoring technologies 
enable data collection for 
auditing purposes (e.g., 
sensors)
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Monitoring technologies 
enable data collection from 
underrepresented 
communities (e.g., worker 
voice technologies)
Macro-level 
collaborations
Collaborations to enable 
supply chain audits
Collaborations to interlink 
local communities across 
regions and countries
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
efficiencies in supplier 
auditing confirming the 
absence of modern slavery
PRIMARY FOCUS: To ensure 
effectiveness of community 
mobilization in sharing 
insights across the region or 
country to assist in 
identification of modern 
slavery
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Firms can enhance data 
collection with data exchange 
technologies (e.g., cloud- 
based applications)
USE OF TECHNOLOGIES: 
Firms can use macro level data 
and analytics for identifying 
hot spots (e.g., satellites)
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
9