--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1981 - 3277
Word Count: 1,297
--------------------

[Page 3]
Stevenson and Cole, 2018 ), or there can be inaction and the failure to 
acknowledge its occurrence ( Stevenson, 2022 ).
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide a granular 
understanding of how to identify modern slavery, recognizing how 
different approaches can lead to different outcomes. However, much like 
firms can simultaneously adopt symbolic and substantive practices to 
address non-financial issues such as quality or sustainability issues 
( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), they can also simultaneously adopt approaches 
that fall within and bridge the contracts- or conditions-focused domains. 
Little is currently understood, however, about how the two domains 
co-exist and how activities within each domain interact. This is impor -
tant given the need to understand how different collaborations can 
leverage different monitoring technologies within and across the two 
domains to identify modern slavery.
2.2. Collaboration to identify modern slavery
Collaboration occurs when “two or more independent companies 
work jointly to plan and execute supply chain operations with greater 
success than when acting in isolation” ( Simatupang and Sridharan, 
2002 ). Given such a broad definition, it is clear that multiple forms of 
collaborations exist in global supply chains, from strategic alliances to 
more arms-length collaborations ( Hayes et al., 2005 ). Moreover, col -
laborations are driven by context: there is no single best way or blue -
print on how different actors collaborate. Fundamentally, collaborations 
are pursued to increase success of involved actors in achieving their 
objectives. These could include, for example, instrumental objectives 
focused on identifying modern slavery to prevent firm reputational 
damage. Collaboration can also be altruistic in nature, recognizing the 
moral obligation to remedy severe worker exploitation ( Pannekoek 
et al., 2023 ).
The main types of supply chain collaboration strategies are hori -
zontal and vertical integration ( Barratt, 2004 ). Horizontal collaboration 
occurs when two or more competing or unrelated firms (at the same 
level of the supply chain) cooperate to share resources, such as 
manufacturing capacity. Horizontal collaboration has been examined in 
response to modern slavery and requires relational capital and effective 
governance mechanisms to succeed ( Benstead et al., 2018 ). Vertical 
collaboration occurs at different levels of the supply chain – with cus -
tomers, internally (across functions), service providers, and with sup -
pliers ( Barratt, 2004 ). Collaborations between different producers, 
distributors and other actors enables a more contextualized approach in 
supply chains ( Caputo and Mininno, 1996 ), arguably providing more 
scope to strengthen labour standards and conditions ( LeBaron, 2021 ).
Collaboration is an area of increasing focus in sustainable supply 
chain research including the need for cross disciplinary scholarship 
( Kach et al., 2025 ), but social concerns, such as extreme labour condi -
tions, have rarely been studied in this context ( Geng et al., 2017 ). Much 
of the limited research that exists focuses on relationships between 
buyers and suppliers, suppliers for a common buyer ( Touboulic and 
Walker, 2015 ), or buyers with common suppliers ( Nidumolu et al., 
2014 ). Collaborative practices to identify modern slavery are critical, as 
they do not just impact source firms but can enhance the capabilities of 
other actors to reduce modern slavery risks, such as suppliers ( Emberson 
et al., 2022 ). Suppliers may adapt their vertical and horizontal re -
lationships to reduce the risk of modern slavery through strategies such 
as horizontal systemization, vertical systemization, horizontal trans -
formation, and vertical differentiation ( Emberson et al., 2022 ). The 
implication is that collaboration recognizes and promotes agency among 
the different actors to enact a range of complementary and mutually 
beneficial outcomes for all.
Collaborations beyond supplier and buyer relationships, particularly 
in a modern slavery context, can involve direct interventions, awareness 
campaigns, or government advocacy for policy changes, among others. 
Collaboration to combat modern slavery typically starts by building 
coalitions where firms, NGOs, and government agencies mobilize 
around a common goal ( Gutierrez-Huerter et al., 2023 ). Many initiatives 
focus on raising awareness to help prevent exploitation ( Bales, 2012 ), or 
on training and capacity building. Corporations, NGOs, and govern -
ments often work together to train law enforcement, immigration offi -
cials, and social service providers on human trafficking issues ( Raineri 
and Strazzari, 2022 ). Collaboration on supplier audits is another form of 
collaboration. Based on a study of 35 brands, an NGO, and a trade body, 
Benstead et al. (2018) investigated how horizontal collaboration can 
enable responses to modern slavery legislation in the textiles and fashion 
industry. Fransen and LeBaron (2019) examined the role of the “Big 
Four” audit firms in services connected to transnational labor gover -
nance. Drawing on a case study linked to modern slavery, they found 
that auditing firms “engage in a variety of informal and covert influ -
encing practices”, such as in promoting incremental improvements to 
soft-law labor governance and serving as civil society’s independent 
watchdog ( Fransen and LeBaron, 2019 , p. 260). Gold et al. (2015) also 
highlighted the need for multi-actor approaches to address modern 
slavery.
2.3. Using technology to identify modern slavery in supply chains
Technology can be broadly defined as “the practical application of 
knowledge especially in a particular area” or “a manner of accom -
plishing a task especially using technical processes, methods, or 
knowledge”, among many other possible formulations.
3
In this paper, 
we focus specifically on monitoring technologies. Monitoring technol -
ogies can be classified as a form of “indirect” technologies. Unlike direct 
technologies (i.e., technologies that enable transformation of inputs into 
outputs, such as trucks, flexible manufacturing systems or material 
processing technologies), indirect technologies focus on controlling and 
coordinating direct processes. Technology has been used to support 
broader social compliance audits, with a recent Gartner report providing 
a set of categories to structure thinking about its potential application 
( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ).
Table 1 groups monitoring technologies into three main categories: 
technologies enabling data collection, data exchange, and data ana -
lytics. First, monitoring technologies can be used for data collection, 
either on-site or in a specific geographic area. For example, landlines 
and video cameras are frequently used at the facility-level. Data 
collection can be enabled by the use of satellite imaging in a broader 
geographic area ( Reid and Castka, 2023 ). Second, monitoring technol -
ogies can be used for data exchange. Technologies can be used to ensure 
interoperability between actors, which is important for any form of 
collaboration ( Herding and Fischer, 2015 ). At a facility, for example, 
smart phones might be used by auditors to upload data in shareable 
formats to apps connected to broader audit platforms ( Castka and 
Searcy, 2023 ). Blockchain can then provide an unalterable ledger to 
provide confidence on product provenance throughout a supply chain. 
Third, monitoring technologies can be used to help draw conclusions 
about the data collected through data analytics. For example, algorthims 
could be developed to predict modern slavery hotspots. Research on the 
specific use of technologies to identify modern slavery has started to 
emerge, including the use of technology to improve product traceability 
( McGrath et al., 2021 ), using blockchain ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), 
applying worker voice technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 
2019 ), and applying satellite imaging ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). More 
broadly, institutional pressures have been shown to encourage digital 
technology adoption by firms seeking to alleviate modern slavery risks 
( Jiang et al., 2023 ).
Technology is being increasingly incorporated to facilitate collabo -
rations between different actors and optimize the use and allocation of 
resources ( Castka and Searcy, 2023 ). These collaborations are usually 
initiated by a focal actor needing resources to accomplish their 
3
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/technology .
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
3