--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 2 to Page 3
Word Range: 2001 - 2250
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
identify modern slavery in global supply chains.
There is a growing body of research demonstrating that technologies 
can help identify modern slavery in supply chains. Technologies dis -
cussed in a modern slavery context typically focus on those that enable 
monitoring of organizational practices and/or traceability of products 
rather than technologies assisting in direct operational processes. Ex -
amples include technologies enabling traceability ( McGrath et al., 
2021 ), blockchain technologies ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), worker voice 
technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 2019 ), or satellite im -
aging technologies ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). We label these technolo -
gies as “monitoring” technologies which can improve data collection, 
data exchange, and data analytics to improve the identification of 
modern slavery ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ). This paper explores how 
multi-actor collaborations leverage monitoring technologies to enhance 
the likelihood of identifying modern slavery. Solutions grounded in 
collaborative approaches to modern slavery offer considerable promise 
( Benstead et al., 2021 ), but little is currently understood about when, 
why, and how these collaborations occur and, critically, how monitoring 
technologies are leveraged through multi-actor collaborations to iden -
tify modern slavery.
Our study is grounded in two perspectives. First, we build on pre -
vious literature in modern slavery with a focus on two domains within it: 
the contracts-focused domain and the conditions-focused domain ( Simpson 
et al., 2021 ). Each domain exhibits unique characteristics that impact 
the choice of both collaborators and monitoring technologies. Second, 
our study utilizes resource dependence theory (RDT). RDT is a highly 
influential theory ( Hillman et al., 2009 ; Ozturk, 2021 ) that seeks to 
understand control between firms from two perspectives: power 
imbalance and mutual dependence (Shiu et al., 2023). In this study, we 
draw on the mutual dependence perspective. The mutual dependence 
perspective can be used to explain when and why different organizations 
collaborate with each other to identify modern slavery. Such motiva -
tions might include strengthening organizational power, autonomy and 
societal acceptance, or legitimacy ( Drees and Heugens, 2013 ). Impor -
tantly, the mutual dependence perspective recognizes that important 
and necessary resources are held by different collaborators and that 
there are interdependencies between those collaborators and the re -
sources they control ( Pfeffer and Salancik, 1978 ). We do not focus on the 
power imbalance perspective. While it may be argued that mutual 
dependence and power imbalance are connected, our primary interest is 
explaining collaboration rather than competition, as may be implied 
through attention given to power imbalance. While RDT is typically 
concerned with explaining firm survival rather than addressing or 
eliminating injustice, it also provides a lens on the critical role resources 
play in addressing potential reputational and financial risk. Such risks 
can harm firm well-being and, indirectly, their long-term survival, if 
injustices, like modern slavery, are found. With research showing that 
firms can financially benefit if they have a track record of addressing 
modern slavery risk ( Cousins et al. ) , identifying modern slavery through 
collaborative means can be an important step towards risk mitigation 
and firm success.
Building on the above, our research question is: How can multi-actor 
collaborations leverage monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery in 
global supply chains? While there are a range of actors that are potentially 
relevant in the context of modern slavery including unions, consumers 
and investors ( McLaren et al., 2024 ), we focus particularly on collabo -
rations between employers, certification and auditing bodies, NGOs, and 
other vested intermediaries. Consistent with RDT, we assume that or -
ganizations pursue collaborations to address gaps in their capabilities 
and/or capacity. This underscores that organizations require resources 
(e.g., data, access, legitimacy, and technology) to facilitate their oper -
ation, reduce uncertainties and risk, and ultimately ensure their sur -
vival. Since few organizations are self-sufficient and leveraging 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery can require unique 
competencies, they must collaborate with other organizations to meet 
capability gaps.
To address our research question, we adopt a qualitative approach. 
We conducted 32 interviews with different organizations involved in 
addressing modern slavery, inclusive of NGOs, business brands, auditing 
firms, individual auditors, technology providers, and regulatory bodies. 
All respondents had extensive experience in the domain of modern 
slavery (such as lawyers, managers, activists, purchasing managers, 
governmental officials), in different regions of the world. The re -
spondents had considerable experience in multi-actor collaboration and 
in the use of technologies in the context of modern slavery and covered a 
wide range of industries. Building on previous studies on modern slavery 
and drawing on RDT to frame and interpret our findings, we demon -
strate that leveraging monitoring technologies in multi-actor collabo -
ration to identify modern slavery is facilitated (or inhibited) by four key 
contingencies: modern slavery posture, collaboration scope, cross- 
boundary interactions, and contextual embeddedness.
2. Conceptual and theoretical background
2.1. Modern slavery and supply chains
Modern slavery is often manifest through indicators such as forced 
work under threat or harm to the worker, owner/employer control (e.g., 
retention of identity documents or passports), restrictions on freedom of 
movement, financial mistreatment (e.g., withholding of wages, under -
payment), and a general dehumanization and commoditization 
( Caruana et al., 2020 ; Crane, 2013 , p. 53). While different economic and 
institutional conditions can precipitate modern slavery ( Moussa et al., 
2022 ), there are important capabilities that firms might utilize to insu -
late, sustain, and profit from such conditions ( Crane, 2013 ). Indeed, it 
has been argued there are multiple business models that can perpetuate 
modern slavery, including models grounded in risk reduction, asset 
leveraging, evading legal minimums, and workers as consumers ( Crane 
et al., 2022 ). Responsibility for the presence of modern slavery rests, at 
least partly, with firm managers and it is within complex organizational 
supply chains where such exploitative practices might be most apparent 
and yet most hidden ( Gold et al., 2015 ; LeBaron, 2021 ; New, 2015 ; 
Shilling et al., 2021 ; Stringer and Michailova, 2018 ).
Legislative developments aimed at eliminating modern slavery 
across numerous jurisdictions along with NGO vigilance have increased 
scrutiny and reputational risk in global supply chains ( Nolan and Bott, 
2018 ; Raj-Reichert, 2020 ). Among the growing examples are the recent 
Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act in the United States and the 
Supply Chain Management Act as part of due diligence legislation in 
Germany. While there is debate about the effectiveness of some of these 
laws, they do raise modern slavery’s public profile ( Islam and Van Sta -
den, 2022 ). Moreover, discovery of modern slavery can heighten 
investor concerns around risk and negatively impact the market value of 
the affected organization ( Nunes, 2018 ) suggesting that greater trans -
parency in supply chains is beneficial ( Kraft and Zheng, 2021 ). Despite 
these advantages, research has indicated that modern slavery is a 
“psychologically distant” or remote idea for many firms ( Simpson et al., 
2021 ).
Two domains have been identified to help structure efforts to reduce 
“psychological distance” from modern slavery ( Simpson et al., 2021 ): 
the contracts-focused domain and the conditions-focused domain. The 
contracts-focused domain focuses predominantly on confirming the 
absence of modern slavery (Ibid). This domain is audit centric, with an 
emphasis on comparing performance relative to a reference point. In 
contrast, the conditions-focused domain is driven by the context in 
which modern slavery occurs and focuses predominantly on identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (Ibid). This domain is typically investi -
gative in nature, with the mindset being to find, disclose, and remediate 
modern slavery in supply chains. However, even when modern slavery is 
found, firms might act defensively regarding the uneven or ambiguous 
public disclosure of the effectiveness of their actions against modern 
slavery ( Meehan and Pinnington, 2021 ; Schaper and Pollach, 2021 ; 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
2

[Page 3]
Stevenson and Cole, 2018 ), or there can be inaction and the failure to 
acknowledge its occurrence ( Stevenson, 2022 ).
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide a granular 
understanding of how to identify modern slavery, recognizing how 
different approaches can lead to different outcomes. However, much like 
firms can simultaneously adopt symbolic and substantive practices to 
address non-financial issues such as quality or sustainability issues 
( Prajogo et al., 2021 ), they can also simultaneously adopt approaches 
that fall within and bridge the contracts- or conditions-focused domains. 
Little is currently understood, however, about how the two domains 
co-exist and how activities within each domain interact. This is impor -
tant given the need to understand how different collaborations can 
leverage different monitoring technologies within and across the two 
domains to identify modern slavery.
2.2. Collaboration to identify modern slavery
Collaboration occurs when “two or more independent companies 
work jointly to plan and execute supply chain operations with greater 
success than when acting in isolation” ( Simatupang and Sridharan, 
2002 ). Given such a broad definition, it is clear that multiple forms of 
collaborations exist in global supply chains, from strategic alliances to 
more arms-length collaborations ( Hayes et al., 2005 ). Moreover, col -
laborations are driven by context: there is no single best way or blue -
print on how different actors collaborate. Fundamentally, collaborations 
are pursued to increase success of involved actors in achieving their 
objectives. These could include, for example, instrumental objectives 
focused on identifying modern slavery to prevent firm reputational 
damage. Collaboration can also be altruistic in nature, recognizing the 
moral obligation to remedy severe worker exploitation ( Pannekoek 
et al., 2023 ).
The main types of supply chain collaboration strategies are hori -
zontal and vertical integration ( Barratt, 2004 ). Horizontal collaboration 
occurs when two or more competing or unrelated firms (at the same 
level of the supply chain) cooperate to share resources, such as 
manufacturing capacity. Horizontal collaboration has been examined in 
response to modern slavery and requires relational capital and effective 
governance mechanisms to succeed ( Benstead et al., 2018 ). Vertical 
collaboration occurs at different levels of the supply chain – with cus -
tomers, internally (across functions), service providers, and with sup -
pliers ( Barratt, 2004 ). Collaborations between different producers, 
distributors and other actors enables a more contextualized approach in 
supply chains ( Caputo and Mininno, 1996 ), arguably providing more 
scope to strengthen labour standards and conditions ( LeBaron, 2021 ).
Collaboration is an area of increasing focus in sustainable supply 
chain research including the need for cross disciplinary scholarship 
( Kach et al., 2025 ), but social concerns, such as extreme labour condi -
tions, have rarely been studied in this context ( Geng et al., 2017 ). Much 
of the limited research that exists focuses on relationships between 
buyers and suppliers, suppliers for a common buyer ( Touboulic and 
Walker, 2015 ), or buyers with common suppliers ( Nidumolu et al., 
2014 ). Collaborative practices to identify modern slavery are critical, as 
they do not just impact source firms but can enhance the capabilities of 
other actors to reduce modern slavery risks, such as suppliers ( Emberson 
et al., 2022 ). Suppliers may adapt their vertical and horizontal re -
lationships to reduce the risk of modern slavery through strategies such 
as horizontal systemization, vertical systemization, horizontal trans -
formation, and vertical differentiation ( Emberson et al., 2022 ). The 
implication is that collaboration recognizes and promotes agency among 
the different actors to enact a range of complementary and mutually 
beneficial outcomes for all.
Collaborations beyond supplier and buyer relationships, particularly 
in a modern slavery context, can involve direct interventions, awareness 
campaigns, or government advocacy for policy changes, among others. 
Collaboration to combat modern slavery typically starts by building 
coalitions where firms, NGOs, and government agencies mobilize 
around a common goal ( Gutierrez-Huerter et al., 2023 ). Many initiatives 
focus on raising awareness to help prevent exploitation ( Bales, 2012 ), or 
on training and capacity building. Corporations, NGOs, and govern -
ments often work together to train law enforcement, immigration offi -
cials, and social service providers on human trafficking issues ( Raineri 
and Strazzari, 2022 ). Collaboration on supplier audits is another form of 
collaboration. Based on a study of 35 brands, an NGO, and a trade body, 
Benstead et al. (2018) investigated how horizontal collaboration can 
enable responses to modern slavery legislation in the textiles and fashion 
industry. Fransen and LeBaron (2019) examined the role of the “Big 
Four” audit firms in services connected to transnational labor gover -
nance. Drawing on a case study linked to modern slavery, they found 
that auditing firms “engage in a variety of informal and covert influ -
encing practices”, such as in promoting incremental improvements to 
soft-law labor governance and serving as civil society’s independent 
watchdog ( Fransen and LeBaron, 2019 , p. 260). Gold et al. (2015) also 
highlighted the need for multi-actor approaches to address modern 
slavery.
2.3. Using technology to identify modern slavery in supply chains
Technology can be broadly defined as “the practical application of 
knowledge especially in a particular area” or “a manner of accom -
plishing a task especially using technical processes, methods, or 
knowledge”, among many other possible formulations.
3
In this paper, 
we focus specifically on monitoring technologies. Monitoring technol -
ogies can be classified as a form of “indirect” technologies. Unlike direct 
technologies (i.e., technologies that enable transformation of inputs into 
outputs, such as trucks, flexible manufacturing systems or material 
processing technologies), indirect technologies focus on controlling and 
coordinating direct processes. Technology has been used to support 
broader social compliance audits, with a recent Gartner report providing 
a set of categories to structure thinking about its potential application 
( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ).
Table 1 groups monitoring technologies into three main categories: 
technologies enabling data collection, data exchange, and data ana -
lytics. First, monitoring technologies can be used for data collection, 
either on-site or in a specific geographic area. For example, landlines 
and video cameras are frequently used at the facility-level. Data 
collection can be enabled by the use of satellite imaging in a broader 
geographic area ( Reid and Castka, 2023 ). Second, monitoring technol -
ogies can be used for data exchange. Technologies can be used to ensure 
interoperability between actors, which is important for any form of 
collaboration ( Herding and Fischer, 2015 ). At a facility, for example, 
smart phones might be used by auditors to upload data in shareable 
formats to apps connected to broader audit platforms ( Castka and 
Searcy, 2023 ). Blockchain can then provide an unalterable ledger to 
provide confidence on product provenance throughout a supply chain. 
Third, monitoring technologies can be used to help draw conclusions 
about the data collected through data analytics. For example, algorthims 
could be developed to predict modern slavery hotspots. Research on the 
specific use of technologies to identify modern slavery has started to 
emerge, including the use of technology to improve product traceability 
( McGrath et al., 2021 ), using blockchain ( Christ and Helliar, 2021 ), 
applying worker voice technologies ( Berg et al., 2020 ; Taylor and Shih, 
2019 ), and applying satellite imaging ( Kougkoulos et al., 2021 ). More 
broadly, institutional pressures have been shown to encourage digital 
technology adoption by firms seeking to alleviate modern slavery risks 
( Jiang et al., 2023 ).
Technology is being increasingly incorporated to facilitate collabo -
rations between different actors and optimize the use and allocation of 
resources ( Castka and Searcy, 2023 ). These collaborations are usually 
initiated by a focal actor needing resources to accomplish their 
3
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/technology .
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
3