--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-CSR-101-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-CSR-101
Page Range: Page 7 to Page 8
Word Range: 6584 - 8926
Word Count: 2,343
--------------------

[Page 7]
directors in our sample, those roles were often preceded by on-the- 
ground experience in auditing, consultation, and advocacy on modern 
slavery. Importantly, our respondents were also involved in oversight of 
a large number of actors and across a wide variety of sectors (e.g., 
agriculture, seafood, manufacturing). While these respondents were not 
able to share any confidential data with us, their experience positions 
them well to answer broader questions about collaborations and tech -
nology adoption. We believe this to be a strength of our data – our ex -
perts had experiences across the different roles and organizations 
involved in modern slavery. Therefore, while we have categorized the 
respondents by five actor groups in Table 3 , this is based on their roles at 
the time of the study. Many of the respondents could have been cate -
gorized into other groups at different points in their careers.
The main source of data for this study were 32 semi-structured in -
terviews conducted between August and December 2021. A recent 
report by Gartner provided background on actors involved in modern 
slavery ( Cossio and McNeill, 2021 ). Initially, we developed a list of 10 
global NGOs and initiated our interviews with them. We aimed to cap -
ture a variety of perspectives and were guided by referrals from them to 
increase and diversify our pool of respondents. As noted, all of the ex -
perts were deeply involved in modern slavery and had served in many 
roles to help address it, such as managing supply chains, technology 
providers, advocacy groups, victim support, and leading multi-actor 
initiatives.
The interviews lasted an hour each on average and were conducted 
over Zoom. All interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim. 
During the interviews, we were guided by a set of open-ended questions. 
We probed the respondents if needed – keeping the research question in 
mind. For example, we asked “Can you highlight some innovative 
practices that help detect modern slavery in firm’s supply chains?”, “Is 
there any opportunity for ongoing use of technologies in firm audits?”, 
and “What are some of the technologies that you use to help give you 
visibility and assurance in the company supply chain?” We followed-up 
with probing questions such as “How do you triangulate the data?”, 
“How have different technologies helped provide greater visibility and 
transparency from your organization’s perspective?”, and “Do worker 
voice technologies lead to the identification of modern slavery?” We also 
explicitly asked all respondents about the roles played by the different 
actors in identifying modern slavery.
3.3. Data analysis
Broadly, we started the analysis with our research question. We also 
grounded our analysis in the literature and theory. As shown in Table 4 , 
we observed the existence of two domains identified in the literature 
( Gold et al., 2015 ; Simpson et al., 2021 ), i.e., the contracts- and 
conditions-focused domains. Consequently, in the analysis, we focused 
on the differences in how organizations cooperate in these domains and 
how ‘domain membership’ shapes the collaboration. As discussed earlier 
in the paper, we were also guided by RDT, with an emphasis on mutual 
dependencies.
We then performed two key rounds of data analysis. The data anal -
ysis followed procedures that are commonly adopted in qualitative 
research, including best practice for using quotes to present claims 
( Rockmann and Vough, 2024 ). We did not have any a priori coding 
scheme and “let the data speak” ( Huxham and Vangen, 2000 ). Whilst 
performing the first round of scanning through the data we focused on 
developing broader understanding of (a) what collaborations organiza -
tions pursue and why; (b) how technologies are used in collaborations; 
and (c) how the unique context affects the collaborations and use of 
monitoring technologies to identify modern slavery. After performing 
the first inspection of the data, we identified high-level patterns linked 
to those three questions (see Table 4 ). We compared our findings (the 
authors conducted the coding independently) and, as shown in Table 4 , 
grouped the patterns into preliminary themes. In the second round of 
analysis, we focused on establishing the linkages between the 
preliminary themes and the outcome of identifying modern slavery. As 
part of this process, we identified four key contingencies. The contin -
gencies formed the basis for the conceptual framework outlined in 
Section 5.1 .
4. Findings
This section presents the results of our data analysis. Building on the 
data analysis procedures described in Section 3 , we present the findings 
Table 4 
Overview of data analysis.
Points of departure Preliminary themes Contingencies
Research Question 
How can multi-actor 
collaborations leverage 
monitoring 
technologies to identify 
modern slavery in 
global supply chains? 
Theoretical 
underpinnings 
There are two domains 
of modern slavery: 
contracts- and 
conditions-focused. 
RDT’s mutual 
dependence perspective 
helps explain when and 
why different 
organizations 
collaborate with each 
other. 
There are inter- 
dependencies between 
collaborations and the 
use of monitoring 
technologies to identify 
modern slavery.
Collaboration 
motivation The 
motivations to 
collaborate underpin 
expectations on how 
modern slavery activities 
are organized, including 
which actors are 
engaged.
Modern slavery posture 
This is characterized by 
the contracts- and 
conditions- focused 
domains.
Modern slavery 
domains The two 
domains of modern 
slavery (i.e., contracts- 
and conditions-focused 
domains) each have their 
own modus operandi, 
which impacts 
approaches to 
identifying modern 
slavery.
Collaboration modes 
There are two levels of 
collaborations to identify 
modern slavery across 
the two domains: micro- 
and macro-levels.
Collaboration scope 
This is characterized by 
micro- and macro-level 
collaborations.
Trust building Trust is a 
foundation of close 
collaboration (e.g., data 
collection, exchange, 
and analytics) within 
and across the two levels.
Boundary spanning 
activities The two 
domains and levels are 
co-existing and 
connected; they do not 
operate in isolation.
Cross-boundary 
interactions This is 
characterized by 
collaborations between 
different motivation 
postures and different 
collaboration scopes.Activity alignment To 
leverage technology 
through collaborations, 
actors must recognize 
mutual dependencies in 
aligning their activities.
Resource access 
Identifying modern 
slavery in different 
contexts requires access 
to different 
combinations of 
resources held by 
different actors.
Contextual 
embeddedness This is 
characterized by tailored 
approaches to identifying 
modern slavery grounded 
in collaborations between 
key actors.
Context matching 
Resources, including 
technologies, must be 
matched to the unique 
context and 
collaborations in any 
supply chain, 
considering potential 
adverse effects.
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
7

[Page 8]
around our four key contingencies, focusing on how they facilitate (or 
inhibit) identifying modern slavery by leveraging monitoring technol -
ogies through multi-actor collaboration. Collectively, the findings pro -
vide a basis for directly answering our research question.
4.1. Modern slavery posture
Modern slavery posture refers to the reason why an organization 
pursues collaboration. There are many reasons why various actors in 
supply chains do not want modern slavery to be found. For example, it 
can be highly profitable for those exploiting others. However, they could 
also be severely punished if it is located, such as reputational risk for a 
firm, or criminal liability for an individual. Motivation is thus impactful 
in determining the modern slavery posture of any given actor – a firm, 
auditing body or NGO. This is illustrated by the following quote: 
“In terms of how difficult is it to find, it is. It depends on whether 
you’re looking for it and it depends on whether you want to find it.” 
MS4
The contracts- and conditions-focused domains provide contrasting 
environments in which modern slavery is identified. We note that many 
interviewees indicated the existence of these domains, though the ter -
minology used to describe them varied. For example: 
“I think those are kind of the two camps that I’ve noticed. One kind 
tends to be used to cater to corporations’ risk-based approach and 
then the NGOs tend to come in for more continuous improvement 
approach. Or not necessarily always NGOs, they could be consul -
tancies, they could be social enterprises, but I think there’s a bit more 
potentially, a more holistic approach to looking at the root cause 
rather than a compliance-based approach.” MS7
In the contracts-focused domain, firms seek collaborations and 
secure resources predominantly to acquire compliance with standards 
and other reference points. In fact, respondents frequently referred to 
this domain as the “compliance-domain” in the interviews. Firms are 
increasingly pushed to address modern slavery through audits, certifi -
cations, and other compliance mechanisms and look for actors that can 
provide such services. We also heard many comments about audits 
focused on confirming the absence of modern slavery, in many cases as a 
mechanism to avoid trouble. To illustrate, 
“I think that the compliance-based approach is very familiar to 
companies. So, I think many of them still seek social audits as from a 
compliance-based perspective and a risk mitigation, risk minimiza -
tion perspective. But there is definitely a trend now and a lot of 
spotlight on companies that move away from trouble, some suppliers 
or regions or commodities, rather than actually working with the 
supply chain to improve it.” MS7
The contracts domain is thus characterized by actors whose primary 
interest is in confirming the absence of modern slavery in their supply 
chains, not necessarily identifying (and remediating) it. Moreover, this 
domain is dominated by firms and service providers. Although other 
actors might get involved (e.g., an NGO might assist with data collec -
tion), this involvement tends to be limited or reduced to symbolic col -
laborations. Notably, and consistent with RDT, the firms and service 
providers have significant control and discretion over the allocation of 
resources and their use. For example, the audits (and related data) have 
a commercial value, which is protected and leveraged for the benefit of 
participating actors (i.e., a certificate demonstrates absence of modern 
slavery). Actors in the contracts-focused domain are primarily con -
cerned with improvements of the audit process, such as cost-cutting or 
audit integration.
In the conditions-focused domain, actors are interested in identifying 
the presence of modern slavery (and then working to remediate it). This 
domain is dominated by NGOs, labour unions, and other actors whose 
raison d’etre is different from firms seeking compliance and 
certification. These actors also employ different mechanisms to identify 
modern slavery: there is less focus on audits and more focus on inves -
tigative work and working with local communities as the following 
quote illustrates: 
“NGOs are going to identify [modern slavery] better, but also it’s not 
just sort of putting a red dot on a map to say there is forced labour 
there. An NGO is going to do a better job of working with a local 
community and identifying what the appropriate remedy is. Because, 
in the end what’s going to prevent forced labour in a particular in -
dustry or what’s going to stop existing forced labour or what’s going 
to remedy forced labour is kind of context specific.” MS27
Recognizing the two modern slavery domains has important rami -
fications for selecting collaborating partners since each domain has 
different aims and approaches to identifying modern slavery. From a 
RDT perspective, for instance, it means that actors seek to secure 
different resources and align (or naturally drift toward) a domain that 
provides such resources and which allows the actors control over the 
allocation of resources for their intended purpose. An example might be 
a firm that seeks to legitimize practices in their supply chains (but not 
necessarily improve these practices), is likely to collaborate with actors 
that provide such service. Consequently, the selection and adaptation of 
technologies also serves as a tool to leverage the legitimization of supply 
chain practices. For example, worker voice technologies (WVT) can be 
used to actively conceal labour issues by careful selection of participants 
or through persecution of whistle blowers. Hotlines can be similarly 
used to monitor the workforce and identify workers the company may 
view as problematic. Conversely, technologies supporting more genuine 
motivations can have the opposite effect.
The adoption of specific monitoring technologies is driven by the 
objectives of the collaboration. For example, an organization may seek 
improvements to its data collection process to achieve greater audit 
efficiency – a typical approach for actors operating in the contracts 
focused domain. Actors involved in audits can benefit from the digita -
lization of the audit process enabled by various technologies (e.g., data 
collection platforms; phone-based apps, etc.). As the following quote 
illustrates, this can enhance audit efficiency: 
“I think technology in the audit process, I mean certainly one thing 
that’s helped is for the auditors to be able to answer the questions. On 
their audit protocol for them to be able to go through and answer 
those questions you know kind of in real time. And you know just 
save them time and energy and also as soon as you’re writing a piece 
of paper and transferring it. […] The fact that the reports get auto -
matically uploaded to [audit platform X] or [audit platform Y] or 
whomever I think that’s also really helpful …” MS9
4.2. Collaboration scope
We found two principal modes of collaborations: micro-level collab -
orations enable identifying modern slavery at a facility level, whilst 
macro-level collaborations enable the same at a regional or national level. 
In both domains, collaborations to secure resources and capabilities 
emerge at these two levels. In the contracts-focused domain, collabo -
rations emerge to enhance the efficiency of compliance mechanisms, 
such as audits. In the conditions-focused domain, the focus was on 
mobilizing communities to identify modern slavery (see Table 5 ). Cross 
boundary collaboration is also possible, as we explore in Section 4.3 .
Collaborations engaged in by each actor depends on the modern 
slavery posture. For example, audits performed at individual facilities 
could be used for multiple purposes – an activity typical for the 
contracts-focused domain. This is a focus of so-called audit platforms – 
data collection and exchange mechanisms, which are developed to 
enable an exchange of insights gained through an audit at one facility to 
inform further insights for various supply chain actors, who use the same 
facility. If actors collaborate across the micro- and macro-levels, audit 
C. Searcy et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management 32 (2026) 101059 
8