--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 8
Word Range: 2266 - 2515
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 8]
3 
adjusted life years (QALYs).7 For example, in Belgium, Ethgen et al. (2016) evaluated the cost-
effectiveness of consuming Vitamin D-fortified yoghurt by 80-year-old women with vertebral 
fractures and found that it led to a gain of 0.027 QALYs; the incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio (ICER)8 was €255 (USD 275) per person. Another study by Aguair et al. (2019) estimated 
that consuming fortified wheat flour with Vitamin D (400IU per 100 grams) could prevent 
approximately 9.9 million cases of Vitamin D deficiency and result in the gain of 1.75 million 
QALYs across the population of England and Wales.  
4. Vitamin D Fortification in India – Some Efforts, but are they Enough? 
While the Government of India is aware of the rising incidence of Vitamin D deficiency and 
has taken initiatives, one major miss is in expanding the basket of fortified food products , 
which countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Nigeria have adopted . This is despite the 
UNICEF’s 2023 guidelines on  “Large-scale Food Fortification for Preventi on of Micronutrient 
Deficiencies in Children, Women and Co mmunities”, which recommends wheat flour, maize 
flour and rice as appropriate vehicles for Vitamin D fortification (see Table 1).  
Table 1: Potential Food Vehicles and their Fortifiable Micronutrients 
Food Vehicle Vitamins and Minerals (Fortificant) that can be Added 
Wheat Flour Iron, Zinc, Selenium, Vitamins A, D, B 1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 
(Pyridoxine), B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Maize Flour Iron, Zinc, Vitamins A, D, B1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 (Pyridoxine), 
B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Rice Iron, Zinc, Selenium, Vitamins A, D, B 1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 
(Pyridoxine), B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Oil Vitamins A, D, and E 
Milk Vitamins A, D, Iron, and Folic Acid 
Source: UNICEF (2023). 
Moreover, not everyone in India can afford  regular milk consumption. D ue to the rising 
incidence of cardiovascular diseases and obesity, many doctors are now recommending a 
reduction in the intake of edible oil. Thus, voluntary food fortification of only two products – 
edible oil and milk – is not enough to prevent the deficiency. Further, a large part of these two 
products are in the unorganised/informal sector, which do not fortify the products.   
Although FSSAI has mandated the use of fortified milk and edible oil in government food 
procurement programmes (such as Mission POSHAN 2.0), some fortified products cannot be 
distributed due to supply chain and storage issues . For example, only a few states such as 
                                                           
7  QALYs measure both the quantity and quality of life lived. One QALY equals one year of life in perfect health. It is calculated by 
multiplying the number of additional years of life by the health-related quality of life (HRQL) score, which ranges from 0 (equivalent to 
death) to 1 (perfect health). QALYs are useful for comparing different types of health interventions – for example, one that extends life 
but with side effects, and another that improves the quality of life without increasing lifespan. 
8  The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is a measure representing the economic value of an intervention, compared with an 
alternative. In this case, the alternative is no intervention undertaken.  
 ICER= (Cost of new strategy-cost of current practice)/(Effect of new strategy-effect of current practice).