--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 1016 - 1265
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
iii 
List of Abbreviations 
CDSCO Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation 
CFTRI Central Food Technological Research Institute 
EU European Union 
FAO Food and Agriculture Organization 
FSSAI Food Safety and Standards Authority of India 
GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition 
HRQL Health-related quality of life 
ICER Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio 
ICMR-NIN Indian Council of Medical Research – National Institute of Nutrition 
IP Intellectual Property 
ISBMR Indian Society for Bone and Mineral Research 
MoFPI Ministry of Food Processing Industries  
MoHFW Ministry of Health and Family Welfare 
MoWCD Ministry of Women and Child Development 
MSME Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
NDDB National Dairy Development Board 
NIFTEM National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management 
NPPA National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority 
PHFI Public Health Foundation of India 
QALY Quality Adjusted Life Year 
R&D Research and Development 
SAMPADA Survey for Assessment of Markers of Population Health Activity, Diet and 
Anthropometry 
UNICEF United Nations International Children's Fund 
UNWFP United Nations World Food Programme 
USA United States of America 
UT Union Territory 
UV Ultraviolet 
WHO World Health Organization

[Page 6]
1 
Action Points for the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) 
Arpita Mukherjee, Aashish Chaudhry, Trishali Khanna, Latika Khatwani and Pallavi Verma 
1. Fortifying India’s Future: Tackling Vitamin D Deficiency through Food-Based Solutions 
Micronutrient deficiency is a pressing public health 
challenge in India, which accounts for nearly half of the 
world’s micronutrient-deficient population. Although 
India has made significant strides in addressing some 
micronutrient deficiencies , such as iron and iodine 
deficiency through double fortified salt , Vitamin D 1 
deficiency, which one in five Indians  suffer from, now 
demands urgent and focused attention. This deficiency 
poses lifelong health risks with far -reaching 
consequences, including  rickets in children, 
osteomalacia and osteoporosis in adults, and poor 
foetal bone development during pregnancy.2 
India is well-equipped to tackle this deficiency through 
food. The country is the  world’s largest producer of 
Vitamin D-rich foods like milk,  and the second-largest 
producer of eggs and fish (as of 2024).3 While these are 
consumed by many Indians, other foods rich in Vitamin 
D like salmon, cod liver oil and mushrooms  are only 
consumed by a niche group of the population  and are 
not part of the regular Indian diet. Moreover, around 30% of the Indian population is 
vegetarian,4 while many Vitamin D-rich foods are animal-based.    
2. Food Fortification: An Approach to Address Vitamin D Deficiency  
Food fo rtification5 has been proven to be an  effective strategy to address multiple 
micronutrient deficiencies, including Vitamin D deficiency. International organisations such as 
the World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the 
United Nations International Children's Fund (UNICEF) have recommended food fortification 
as one of the most cost -effective and sustainable , population -wide strateg ies to address 
micronutrient deficiencies. For example, the WHO and FAO issued the “Guidelines on Food 
                                                           
1  Vitamin D is a vital micronutrient that plays a crucial role in the development, growth and maintenance of a healthy skeletal system 
throughout an individual’s lifespan. The primary role of Vitamin D is to regulate calcium homeostasis, which is crucial for maintaining 
proper calcium levels and promoting strong bones. See ICRIER-ANVKA Foundation 2025 report, “Roadmap to Address Vitamin D 
Deficiency in India” (Mukherjee et al., 2025). 
2  Reddy, 2020; Nitish et al., 2024; Bhadada et al., 2021. 
3  https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2114715; https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2086052; 
https://www.pib.gov.in/FactsheetDetails.aspx?Id=149135 (Last accessed on July 23, 2025). 
4  https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/FR375/FR375.pdf (Last accessed on July 16, 2025). 
5  The process of adding one or more vitamins and minerals to commonly consumed food items. 
Sources of Vitamin D 
 
Sunshine: Vitamin D, also known as 
the ‘sunshine vitamin,’ is primarily 
obtained through exposure to 
sunlight.  
Foods: Fish, eggs, mushrooms, 
cheese, etc., fortified products like 
milk, margarine, yogurt, juices and 
cereals.  
Vitamin D Supplements:  Vitamin D2 
(Ergocalciferol, mostly plant -based) 
and D 3 (Cholecalciferol, mostly 
animal-based).