--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 6 to Page 7
Word Range: 1516 - 1765
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 6]
1 
Action Points for the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) 
Arpita Mukherjee, Aashish Chaudhry, Trishali Khanna, Latika Khatwani and Pallavi Verma 
1. Fortifying India’s Future: Tackling Vitamin D Deficiency through Food-Based Solutions 
Micronutrient deficiency is a pressing public health 
challenge in India, which accounts for nearly half of the 
world’s micronutrient-deficient population. Although 
India has made significant strides in addressing some 
micronutrient deficiencies , such as iron and iodine 
deficiency through double fortified salt , Vitamin D 1 
deficiency, which one in five Indians  suffer from, now 
demands urgent and focused attention. This deficiency 
poses lifelong health risks with far -reaching 
consequences, including  rickets in children, 
osteomalacia and osteoporosis in adults, and poor 
foetal bone development during pregnancy.2 
India is well-equipped to tackle this deficiency through 
food. The country is the  world’s largest producer of 
Vitamin D-rich foods like milk,  and the second-largest 
producer of eggs and fish (as of 2024).3 While these are 
consumed by many Indians, other foods rich in Vitamin 
D like salmon, cod liver oil and mushrooms  are only 
consumed by a niche group of the population  and are 
not part of the regular Indian diet. Moreover, around 30% of the Indian population is 
vegetarian,4 while many Vitamin D-rich foods are animal-based.    
2. Food Fortification: An Approach to Address Vitamin D Deficiency  
Food fo rtification5 has been proven to be an  effective strategy to address multiple 
micronutrient deficiencies, including Vitamin D deficiency. International organisations such as 
the World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the 
United Nations International Children's Fund (UNICEF) have recommended food fortification 
as one of the most cost -effective and sustainable , population -wide strateg ies to address 
micronutrient deficiencies. For example, the WHO and FAO issued the “Guidelines on Food 
                                                           
1  Vitamin D is a vital micronutrient that plays a crucial role in the development, growth and maintenance of a healthy skeletal system 
throughout an individual’s lifespan. The primary role of Vitamin D is to regulate calcium homeostasis, which is crucial for maintaining 
proper calcium levels and promoting strong bones. See ICRIER-ANVKA Foundation 2025 report, “Roadmap to Address Vitamin D 
Deficiency in India” (Mukherjee et al., 2025). 
2  Reddy, 2020; Nitish et al., 2024; Bhadada et al., 2021. 
3  https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2114715; https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2086052; 
https://www.pib.gov.in/FactsheetDetails.aspx?Id=149135 (Last accessed on July 23, 2025). 
4  https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/FR375/FR375.pdf (Last accessed on July 16, 2025). 
5  The process of adding one or more vitamins and minerals to commonly consumed food items. 
Sources of Vitamin D 
 
Sunshine: Vitamin D, also known as 
the ‘sunshine vitamin,’ is primarily 
obtained through exposure to 
sunlight.  
Foods: Fish, eggs, mushrooms, 
cheese, etc., fortified products like 
milk, margarine, yogurt, juices and 
cereals.  
Vitamin D Supplements:  Vitamin D2 
(Ergocalciferol, mostly plant -based) 
and D 3 (Cholecalciferol, mostly 
animal-based).

[Page 7]
2 
Fortification with Micronutrients” in November 2006, which provides a comprehensive 
framework for implementing and regulating food fortification programmes. 
In India, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has permitted the voluntary 
fortification of milk and edible oil with Vitamin D and mandated its distribution through public 
food procurement schemes (like Mission POSHAN 2.0).6  
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI)  is the nodal ministry for processing of 
fortified foods. Under the ministry, institutions such as the National Institute of Food 
Technology Entrepreneurship and Management ( NIFTEM) are already engaged in research 
and development (R&D) on Vitamin D including bioavailability, stability, formulation,  plant-
based D₃, Vitamin D retention during cooking, etc.  Therefore, the ministry can play a key role 
in addressing the deficiency through food-based solutions, particularly fortification. 
3. Vitamin D Fortification Globally: Experiences of Select Countries   
Countries such as Jordan, Nigeria, Sweden, Canada, 
the United States of America (USA) and Finland have 
benefited by fortifying a wide range of products such 
as margarine, milk, cheese, fat spreads, flour, yogurt, 
juices, biscuits, bread, etc., with Vitamin D. Globally, 
there are example s of many multi -stakeholder 
initiatives to address Vitamin D deficiency through 
food fortification. For example, Bangladesh, in 2011, with the support of the European Union 
(EU), introduced a school -based micronutrient fortification programme under which  daily 
packets of Vitamin D-fortified biscuits were provided to children in rural primary schools; this 
has shown positive results in reducing the deficiency (for details see Box 1). 
Box 1: Addressing Micronutrient Deficiency through Partnership: The Case of Bangladesh  
In 2011, the Bangladesh Government, with support from the European Union (EU), launched a 
school-based micronutrient food fortification programme. This initiative targeted children in rural 
primary schools across 10 disadvantaged sub-districts. The intervention provided each child with a 
daily packet of 75g of biscuits fortified with essential micronutrients, including Vitamin D3.  
The programme had a significant positive impact on increasing mean levels of Vitamin D . Mean 
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels increased by 1.1 times.  Fortified biscuits served as an 
effective vehicle for improving Vitamin D levels, as teachers and caregivers reported improved 
attentiveness, energy levels and classroom engagement among students. 
- Adams et al., (2017) 
Studies have shown the positive impact of Vitamin D fortification in reducing the burden of 
Vitamin D deficiency and of diseases related to the deficiency , as well as  improving quality 
                                                           
6  All such fortified products are required to carry the designated ‘+F’ logo.  
“Large scale food fortification is a 
powerful evidence-informed and cost-
effective intervention to fight the 
consequences of vitamin and mineral 
deficiencies”.  
            -WHO (2023)