--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 7 to Page 9
Word Range: 1571 - 2940
Word Count: 1,370
--------------------

[Page 7]
2 
Fortification with Micronutrients” in November 2006, which provides a comprehensive 
framework for implementing and regulating food fortification programmes. 
In India, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has permitted the voluntary 
fortification of milk and edible oil with Vitamin D and mandated its distribution through public 
food procurement schemes (like Mission POSHAN 2.0).6  
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI)  is the nodal ministry for processing of 
fortified foods. Under the ministry, institutions such as the National Institute of Food 
Technology Entrepreneurship and Management ( NIFTEM) are already engaged in research 
and development (R&D) on Vitamin D including bioavailability, stability, formulation,  plant-
based D₃, Vitamin D retention during cooking, etc.  Therefore, the ministry can play a key role 
in addressing the deficiency through food-based solutions, particularly fortification. 
3. Vitamin D Fortification Globally: Experiences of Select Countries   
Countries such as Jordan, Nigeria, Sweden, Canada, 
the United States of America (USA) and Finland have 
benefited by fortifying a wide range of products such 
as margarine, milk, cheese, fat spreads, flour, yogurt, 
juices, biscuits, bread, etc., with Vitamin D. Globally, 
there are example s of many multi -stakeholder 
initiatives to address Vitamin D deficiency through 
food fortification. For example, Bangladesh, in 2011, with the support of the European Union 
(EU), introduced a school -based micronutrient fortification programme under which  daily 
packets of Vitamin D-fortified biscuits were provided to children in rural primary schools; this 
has shown positive results in reducing the deficiency (for details see Box 1). 
Box 1: Addressing Micronutrient Deficiency through Partnership: The Case of Bangladesh  
In 2011, the Bangladesh Government, with support from the European Union (EU), launched a 
school-based micronutrient food fortification programme. This initiative targeted children in rural 
primary schools across 10 disadvantaged sub-districts. The intervention provided each child with a 
daily packet of 75g of biscuits fortified with essential micronutrients, including Vitamin D3.  
The programme had a significant positive impact on increasing mean levels of Vitamin D . Mean 
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels increased by 1.1 times.  Fortified biscuits served as an 
effective vehicle for improving Vitamin D levels, as teachers and caregivers reported improved 
attentiveness, energy levels and classroom engagement among students. 
- Adams et al., (2017) 
Studies have shown the positive impact of Vitamin D fortification in reducing the burden of 
Vitamin D deficiency and of diseases related to the deficiency , as well as  improving quality 
                                                           
6  All such fortified products are required to carry the designated ‘+F’ logo.  
“Large scale food fortification is a 
powerful evidence-informed and cost-
effective intervention to fight the 
consequences of vitamin and mineral 
deficiencies”.  
            -WHO (2023)

[Page 8]
3 
adjusted life years (QALYs).7 For example, in Belgium, Ethgen et al. (2016) evaluated the cost-
effectiveness of consuming Vitamin D-fortified yoghurt by 80-year-old women with vertebral 
fractures and found that it led to a gain of 0.027 QALYs; the incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio (ICER)8 was €255 (USD 275) per person. Another study by Aguair et al. (2019) estimated 
that consuming fortified wheat flour with Vitamin D (400IU per 100 grams) could prevent 
approximately 9.9 million cases of Vitamin D deficiency and result in the gain of 1.75 million 
QALYs across the population of England and Wales.  
4. Vitamin D Fortification in India – Some Efforts, but are they Enough? 
While the Government of India is aware of the rising incidence of Vitamin D deficiency and 
has taken initiatives, one major miss is in expanding the basket of fortified food products , 
which countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Nigeria have adopted . This is despite the 
UNICEF’s 2023 guidelines on  “Large-scale Food Fortification for Preventi on of Micronutrient 
Deficiencies in Children, Women and Co mmunities”, which recommends wheat flour, maize 
flour and rice as appropriate vehicles for Vitamin D fortification (see Table 1).  
Table 1: Potential Food Vehicles and their Fortifiable Micronutrients 
Food Vehicle Vitamins and Minerals (Fortificant) that can be Added 
Wheat Flour Iron, Zinc, Selenium, Vitamins A, D, B 1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 
(Pyridoxine), B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Maize Flour Iron, Zinc, Vitamins A, D, B1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 (Pyridoxine), 
B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Rice Iron, Zinc, Selenium, Vitamins A, D, B 1 (Thiamine), B2 (Riboflavin), B3 (Niacin), B6 
(Pyridoxine), B9 (Folate or Folic Acid), and B12 (Cobalamin) 
Oil Vitamins A, D, and E 
Milk Vitamins A, D, Iron, and Folic Acid 
Source: UNICEF (2023). 
Moreover, not everyone in India can afford  regular milk consumption. D ue to the rising 
incidence of cardiovascular diseases and obesity, many doctors are now recommending a 
reduction in the intake of edible oil. Thus, voluntary food fortification of only two products – 
edible oil and milk – is not enough to prevent the deficiency. Further, a large part of these two 
products are in the unorganised/informal sector, which do not fortify the products.   
Although FSSAI has mandated the use of fortified milk and edible oil in government food 
procurement programmes (such as Mission POSHAN 2.0), some fortified products cannot be 
distributed due to supply chain and storage issues . For example, only a few states such as 
                                                           
7  QALYs measure both the quantity and quality of life lived. One QALY equals one year of life in perfect health. It is calculated by 
multiplying the number of additional years of life by the health-related quality of life (HRQL) score, which ranges from 0 (equivalent to 
death) to 1 (perfect health). QALYs are useful for comparing different types of health interventions – for example, one that extends life 
but with side effects, and another that improves the quality of life without increasing lifespan. 
8  The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is a measure representing the economic value of an intervention, compared with an 
alternative. In this case, the alternative is no intervention undertaken.  
 ICER= (Cost of new strategy-cost of current practice)/(Effect of new strategy-effect of current practice).

[Page 9]
4 
Maharashtra and Gujarat  provide milk through PM POSHAN . Some states like Tamil Nadu, 
Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have included eggs in their school meals.9 It will be 
ideal to distribute fortified milk in partnership with organisations like National D airy 
Development Board (NDDB). However, in case there is any issue in the supply chain, then 1 to 
2 Vitamin D-enriched biscuits per child may be provided, taking into account that the content 
should be classified under high fat, sugar and salt food.   
Several food products (like packaged juices and cereals) are now available in food stores and 
non-store r etail formats as “Vitamin D Enriched ”. This is allowed under the FSSAI claim 
regulation and there is a growing demand for such products. Enriching products with micro-
nutrients often make s them a p remium product, with the high price reducing their 
affordability to the masses.   
5. Action Points for MoFPI to Address Vitamin D Deficiency in India 
The following five action points by the MoFPI will help to address Vitamin D deficiency in India. 
5.1 Collaborate with FSSAI and other Stakeholders for more Vitamin D Fortified Food 
Products 
To realise the vision of “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”, the FSSAI Scientific Panel on Food 
Fortification, experts from the NIFTEM, Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), 
and other stakeholders [such as the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and the 
Gates Foundation] may work together to achieve the following: 
 Expand the Range of Fortifiable Food Vehicles: At present, fortification efforts are limited 
to edible oils and milk. Identifying additional food vehicles suitable for Vitamin D 
fortification, such as commonly consumed 
staples like rice, wheat flour and maize flour  
can significantly help address Vitamin D 
deficiency. In this regard, UNICEF’s 2023 
Guidelines on Large -Scale Food Fortification  
(see Table 1) may be examined . In India, 
various organisations are already engaged in 
developing Vitamin D -fortified products like 
biscuits. These can be distributed to at -risk 
populations under public nutrition programmes such as Mission POSHAN 2.0.  
 Allow Fortification with Both Vitamin D₂ and D₃: Currently, Vitamin D fortification in India 
is limited to plant-based forms of Vitamin D. Expanding the scope to include animal-based 
Vitamin D – with appropriate non-vegetarian labelling – would allow consumers to make 
                                                           
9  https://dsel.education.gov.in/sites/default/files/schemes_guidelines/Guidelines_PM%20POSHAN_SCHEM E.pdf; 
https://www.niti.gov.in/sites/default/files/2022-06/Take-home-ration-report-30_06_2022.pdf (Last accessed on July 29, 2025).