--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 3211 - 3460
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
5 
informed choices based  on their dietary preferences.  While NIFT EM and others are 
conducting R&D on Vitamin D3 from plant sources, industry buy-in and the engagement 
of healthcare professionals are needed to help in the commercialisation of such products 
and to spread kn owledge and reduce misconceptions about Vitamin D from plant and 
animal-based sources.  
 Create a Multi -stakeholder Platform to Discuss  and Share Research on  Bioavailability 
and Stability of Vitamin D Forms:  NIFTEM is conducting analysis on the bioavailability, 
stability and absorption rates of different forms of Vitamin D (e.g., D ₂ vs. D₃) in various 
food matrices. However, the food processing industry is often concerned about the 
potential loss of intellectual  property (IP) during the research process; strengthening IP 
protection further is, therefore, essential. A well-designed multi-stakeholder platform can 
facilitate collaboration and serve as a forum for discussing and sharing research in a secure 
and structured manner.  
 Work with ICMR -NIN and FSSAI to Make Vitamin D Fortified Food a part of Dietary 
Guidelines 2024: The 2024 Dietary Guidelines  by ICMR -NIN highlight sunlight as a key 
source of Vitamin D but does not mention food as a vehicle to reduce Vitamin D deficiency. 
MoFPI may work with ICMR-NIN and FSSAI to include Vitamin D rich and fortified foods as 
part of the addendum to 2025 Dietary Guidelines. While it will help the consumer adopt 
a rich diet, it will also help the industry adopt fortification during food processing.  
 Work with Industry to Build Consensus on Mandatory Fortification: It is necessary to 
engage with industry to understand their concerns (such as cost implications, 
reformulation challenges, compliance burden, etc.) and provide targeted support to help 
shift from voluntary to mandatory fortification.    
5.2 Support Research and Innovation in Vitamin D Fortification 
Targeted research and development are essential to support the advancement of Vitamin D 
fortification in India. NIFTEM, in collaboration with  companies like Fermenta Biotech, are 
already working towards developing plant -based sources of Vitamin D. Such collaborations 
may be encouraged. Other areas of research may include the following: 
 Preserving Vitamin D during Cooking:  Vitamin D is relatively stable during cooking; 
however, repeated boiling and exposure to high temperatures, such as those used in slow 
cooking and frying, can reduce the content of Vitamin D in food. This underscores the need 
for further research on the retention of Vitamin D after frying, particularly in the context 
of Indian culinary practices. 
 Exploring Innovative Fortification Techniques:  Techniques such as ultraviolet ( UV) 
exposure of mushrooms to increase their Vitamin D content are already underway. These 
innovations should be studied further to assess how they can be scaled and applied to 
other food processing methods.