--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 11
Word Range: 3711 - 3960
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
6 
 Develop more Vitamin D Fortified Products: There is a need to develop new Vitamin D -
fortified products, (such as ready-to-eat snacks, protein bars and bakery items) to increase 
options for the consumer. All newly developed fortified products must undergo rigorous 
testing and food trials to ensure they are safe, effective and acceptable to consumers. 
 Comparative Analysis of Vitamin D ₂ and D ₃: R&D can be supported to compare the 
effectiveness, bioavailability and cost-efficiency of Vitamin D₂ and D₃. 
The above  areas of research  require sustained investment and institutional support 
through targeted funding, innovation grants and public -private partnerships. MoFPI can 
play a key role in supporting a nationwide “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”  campaign 
by integrating these research priorities and collaborating with the Ministry of Finance to 
secure dedicated funding for the campaign.    
5.3 Launching Targeted Pilot Programmes through Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships 
The MoFPI may collaborate with ICMR-NIN (MoHFW), Ministry of Women and Child 
Development (MoWCD) and organisations such as GAIN, the Gates Foundation, ANVKA 
Foundation, etc., to launch pilot food fortification projects in high-risk districts and among 
vulnerable population groups. The ICMR-NIN Survey for Assessment of Markers of Population 
Health Activity, Diet and Anthropometry  (SAMPADA)10 can be used to identify the targeted 
districts and vulnerable groups for pilots and fortified foods like biscuits can be given to check 
efficacy, ensuring that portions are controlled.  
5.4 Incentivising Fortified Food Production and Consumption 
The MoFPI can work with the Ministry of Finance to promote the production of Vitamin D 
fortified food by providing nutrition linked incentives to manufacturers for mandatory 
fortification and for R&D in Vitamin D fortified products.  
5.5 Capacity Building of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for Vitamin D 
Fortification 
The MoFPI can strengthen Vitamin D fortification efforts by building the capacity of MSMEs. 
This can be achieved through targeted training programmes, technical support and simplified 
compliance guidance, enabling MSMEs to adopt fortification practices effectively. 
Organisations such as the GAIN can support these efforts by providing toolkits, technological 
assistance and best practices for cost-effective and safe food fortification. 
To conclude, NIFT EM under MoFPI is actively working on food fortification with essential 
micronutrients, including Vitamin D. The MoFPI is well-connected with the food industry and 
by embedding nutrition in food processing and working with other government agencies and 
stakeholders, they can make fortified foods reach the most vulnerable, M oFPI can play a 
transformative role in realising a “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”. 
                                                           
10  SAMPADA is India’s first diet and bio-marker survey covering 36 States and Union Territories (UTs), with a sample size of 2.5 lakh 
individuals and a sub-sample of 30,000 specifically tested for micronutrient deficiency, including Vitamin D.