--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C12
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 9
Word Range: 2819 - 3210
Word Count: 392
--------------------

[Page 9]
4 
Maharashtra and Gujarat  provide milk through PM POSHAN . Some states like Tamil Nadu, 
Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have included eggs in their school meals.9 It will be 
ideal to distribute fortified milk in partnership with organisations like National D airy 
Development Board (NDDB). However, in case there is any issue in the supply chain, then 1 to 
2 Vitamin D-enriched biscuits per child may be provided, taking into account that the content 
should be classified under high fat, sugar and salt food.   
Several food products (like packaged juices and cereals) are now available in food stores and 
non-store r etail formats as “Vitamin D Enriched ”. This is allowed under the FSSAI claim 
regulation and there is a growing demand for such products. Enriching products with micro-
nutrients often make s them a p remium product, with the high price reducing their 
affordability to the masses.   
5. Action Points for MoFPI to Address Vitamin D Deficiency in India 
The following five action points by the MoFPI will help to address Vitamin D deficiency in India. 
5.1 Collaborate with FSSAI and other Stakeholders for more Vitamin D Fortified Food 
Products 
To realise the vision of “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”, the FSSAI Scientific Panel on Food 
Fortification, experts from the NIFTEM, Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), 
and other stakeholders [such as the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and the 
Gates Foundation] may work together to achieve the following: 
 Expand the Range of Fortifiable Food Vehicles: At present, fortification efforts are limited 
to edible oils and milk. Identifying additional food vehicles suitable for Vitamin D 
fortification, such as commonly consumed 
staples like rice, wheat flour and maize flour  
can significantly help address Vitamin D 
deficiency. In this regard, UNICEF’s 2023 
Guidelines on Large -Scale Food Fortification  
(see Table 1) may be examined . In India, 
various organisations are already engaged in 
developing Vitamin D -fortified products like 
biscuits. These can be distributed to at -risk 
populations under public nutrition programmes such as Mission POSHAN 2.0.  
 Allow Fortification with Both Vitamin D₂ and D₃: Currently, Vitamin D fortification in India 
is limited to plant-based forms of Vitamin D. Expanding the scope to include animal-based 
Vitamin D – with appropriate non-vegetarian labelling – would allow consumers to make 
                                                           
9  https://dsel.education.gov.in/sites/default/files/schemes_guidelines/Guidelines_PM%20POSHAN_SCHEM E.pdf; 
https://www.niti.gov.in/sites/default/files/2022-06/Take-home-ration-report-30_06_2022.pdf (Last accessed on July 29, 2025).