--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 13 to Page 16
Word Range: 4180 - 4896
Word Count: 717
--------------------

[Page 13]
8 
Reddy, K. A. (2020).  Prevalence of rickets: a clinical study. International Journal of 
Contemporary Paediatrics,  7(3), 593. https://doi.org/10.18203/2349-
3291.ijcp20200684 (Last accessed on May 26, 2025). 
UNICEF (2023). Large‑scale Food Fortification for the Prevention of Micronutrient Deficiencies 
in Children, Women and Communities: Guidance Note. New York: UNICEF, 2023. 
https://www.unicef.org/media/151001/file/Largescale%20food%20fortification%20f
or%20the%20prevention%20of%20micronutrient%20deficiencies%20in%20children,
%20women%20and%20communities.pdf (Last accessed on August 08, 2025).

[Page 14]
9 
Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) is an independent  
public policy organization known for providing informative and insightful ideas to accelerate 
India's inclusive development. Established in 1981 with the motto of "linking India with the 
world," it has grown to become one of India's most well-known policy research think tanks in 
the areas of Agriculture, Climate Change, Digital Economy, Economic Growth, Jobs and 
Gender, and Trade, Industry and Investment. While serving as a trusted advisor to the 
governments, corporates, multilaterals and foundations, ICRI ER continues to function as a 
bridge between the academic world and the policy arena. 
ICRIER has two office locations in Delhi; in the institutional complex of India Habitat Centre 
and a new office at the Institutional Area, Sector 6, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi. 
ICRIER's Board of Governors include leading academicians, policymakers, and representatives 
from the private sector. Mr. Pramod Bhasin is ICRIER's chairperson. 
ICRIER conducts thematic research in the following five thrust areas: 
 Growth, Employment and Macroeconomics (GEM) 
 Trade, Investment and External Relations (TIER) 
 Agriculture Policy, Sustainability and Innovation (APSI) 
 Digital Economy, Start-ups and Innovation (DESI) 
 Climate Change, Urbanization and Sustainability (CCUS) 
To effectively disseminate  research findings, ICRIER organises workshops, seminars and 
conferences to bring together academicians, policymakers, representatives from industry and 
media to create a more informed understanding on issues of major policy interest. ICRIER 
routinely invites distinguished scholars and policymakers from around the world to deliver 
public lectures and give seminars on economic themes of interest to contemporary India.

[Page 15]
10 
 
The ANVKA Foundation, a Section 8 registered non-governmental organization, is committed 
to fostering holistic community development and social transformation. Led by renowned 
surgeon and philanthropist Dr. Aashish Chaudhry, the foundation’s initiatives span education, 
social welfare, cultural preservation, economic empowerment, medical reli ef and 
environmental protection, all aimed at uplifting underprivileged communities. Rooted in 
practical philosophy, art, aesthetics and psychoanalytic insights, ANVKA addresses critical 
societal issues such as education, gender equality, ecology, governance and public health, with 
a focus on both rural and urban areas. Collaborating with government and community-driven 
initiatives, ANVKA ensures comprehensive support across diverse needs. 
At the heart of ANVKA’s mission is the promotion of innovative education that integrates the 
socio-political, economic, spiritual and aesthetic dimensions. The foundation advocates the 
re-education of relationships, challenging patriarchal norms and fostering mutual respect and 
dignity to build a more equitable society. AN VKA works to dismantle oppressive social 
structures, focusing on creating a future grounded in love, understanding and equality. 
Additionally, the foundation promotes environmental sustainability and livelihoods that are 
ecologically responsible and social ly fair, recognizing the interconnectedness of all life and 
striving for harmony between humans and the environment. Their efforts also include 
promoting active citizenship by encouraging individuals to engage in participatory democracy 
and take an active role in shaping their communities. 
ANVKA’s health interventions prioritize preventive care for vulnerable populations, 
emphasizing the importance of building a culture of compassionate community support. 
Through these initiatives, the foundation empowers c ommunities to actively participate in 
shaping their futures, fostering social justice and promoting inclusivity. ANVKA’s core areas of 
focus include education, gender equality, empowerment, environmental protection, 
community development, and health and we ll-being. Their innovative educational programs 
are grounded in lived experiences, integrating multiple dimensions, while their gender 
equality initiatives challenge societal norms to build respectful, equitable relationships. The 
foundation promotes livel ihoods that are economically viable and environmentally 
sustainable, while also advocating for a harmonious relationship with nature. 
Guided by values of holistic well-being, community engagement, social justice, sustainability 
and innovation, ANVKA strives to build a just, inclusive and thriving world for all. Together, we 
can create a brighter, more equitable future.

[Page 16]
11 
 
 
Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) 
Our Offices: 
4th Floor, Core 6A, India Habitat Centre, Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003  
The Isher Building, Plot No. 16-17, Pushp Vihar, Institutional Area, Sector 6, New Delhi-110017 
O: +91 11 43112400, F: +91 11 24620180 | W: www.icrier.org | E: info@icrier.res.in