--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C70
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 60
Word Range: 20337 - 20662
Word Count: 326
--------------------

[Page 60]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
60
• Establish a credit information center inspir ed 
by Japan’s Credit Risk Database (CRD) model. 
By collecting anonymous financial information 
in a traceless manner, this initiative will 
incentivize MSMEs to disclose accurate 
financial details. This approach enhances 
credit risk prediction and fosters improved 
access to credit facilities for MSMEs.
• Emulate Bangladesh's successful legislation 
by exploring the implementation of a similar 
pre-payment scheme for shipments. This 
strategic measure requires clients to make a 
50% upfront payment for orders scheduled 
for delivery 90 days from the transaction date. 
The scheme aims to alleviate cash crunch 
challenges, promote capital cost recovery, and 
reduce reliance on bill discounting, fostering 
financial resilience and opening avenues for 
further credit utilization.
Quality Standards And
Compliance
• Increasing focus on sustainability and ESG 
compliance could become a bottle neck 
for MSMEs if not educated early about its 
implications. 
• The government should take steps to 
enhance the quality testing facilities by 
upgrading current labs and establishing new 
state-of-the-art testing centres in coastal areas 
through diverse methods, including Public-
Private Partnerships (PPPs).
• Implement traceability for marine and 
agricultural produce to monitor, test, and 
certify products originating from the State, 
starting from the farm level, streamlining the 
process for organic certification.
• Provide access to information on the 
standards and technical regulations of our 
trading partners, especially when these differ 
from international standards. This information 
should be accessible to both exporters and 
the overseeing regulatory bodies involved in 
certifications.
• Launch a targeted campaign within the 
marine sector to raise awareness about 
hygiene standards at fishing harbours, 
emphasizing responsible practices regarding 
the use of antibiotics and similar measures.
• Textile manufacturers and handloom 
producers should be encouraged to 
certify their products through recognized 
certifications such as Zero Discharge of 
Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC), Certificates of 
Origin for Textiles & Made ups, Generalized 
System of Preferences certificates via REX 
(Registered Exporter System), and Tariff 
Rate Quota Certificates. Raising awareness 
about these certifications is important for the 
industry's sustainability and market access.
SMART GOAL: Within the next two years, 
West Bengal to enhance quality standards and 
compliance through various measures, including:
•
 Improve the quality testing infrastructure 
in West Bengal by upgrading existing labs 
and establishing new state-of-the-art testing 
centres through diverse methods, including 
Public-Private Partnerships.
•
 Provide accessible information on trading 
partners' standards and technical regulations.
• Increase the number of accredited testing 
centres in the state by 50% within the next 18 
months, providing access to quality testing 
services for a broader range of products.
Export Promotion Activities
• To enhance visibility of West Bengal based 
industries in export market, the State to 
formulate its own calendar of events through 
collaboration with various trade related 
associations, Central and State government 
organizations and annually organize 
participation in major International Events.
• The government should establish a robust 
analytical database for export decision-
making, encompassing market potential and 
aiding businesses in their strategic export 
endeavours.
• Establishing a specialized advisory support 
unit aimed at offering expert guidance to 
exporters, assisting in market research, trend 
identification, export strategy formulation, 
regulatory compliance, and international 
trade negotiations.
• Initiate inclusive export promotion campaigns 
to raise awareness about West Bengal's 
export potential, spotlight successful exporter 
stories, and underscore the advantages