--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C18
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 18 to Page 20
Word Range: 5290 - 5539
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 18]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
18
PART II
A Strategy for West Bengal 
MSMEs

[Page 19]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
19
Table of Contents
Introduction  20
Comparative Landscape  21
 Free Trade Agreements  21
 Potential for West Bengal  23
 Supply Chain De-Risking  24
 Potential for West Bengal  26
 Geopolitical Environment  27
Methodology for Identifying Export Potential  28
 Revealed Comparative Analysis  28
 Market Demand Index  29
Key Exporters and Importers  31
Identified Export Opportunities  38
 Gems & Jewellery  39
 Textile & Leather  41
 Handicraft  43
 Metal Products  45
 Chemical Industry  47
 Agri Products & Food Processing  49
Leveraging Opportunities  51
 Exporter/Importer Perspectives  51
S.M.A.R.T. Goals  54
 Industry Specific Recommendations  54
 Developing Transport and Logistical Infrastructur e  56
 Developing Institutional Infrastructure  57
 Skill Development  58
 Improve Access to Credit  59
 Quality Standards and Compliance  60
 Export Promotion Activities  60
 Performance Management Mechanism  61
 Promotion of E-Commerce  61
 Promote Geographical Indication (GI) Registrations  62
 Procurement of Raw Materials  62
Annexure  64

[Page 20]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
20
In the report titled "An Exploratory Analysis of West Bengal MSME Exports," we 
examined West Bengal's export landscape and identified the state's standout 
exports, which encompassed a wide range of products, including engineering goods, 
agricultural products, textiles, and gems & jewellery. Leveraging its diverse industrial 
base and strategic geographic positioning, West Bengal has experienced significant 
growth in the export sector, moving up to the 8th position among India's exporting 
states in FY 2023.
In this follow-up report, we will conduct a comparative analysis of the prevailing local and 
global conditions for export promotion. The report will also provide recommendations 
for financing the high-growth agenda. To achieve this, the report will delve into a 
detailed comparison of West Bengal's MSME exports, pinpointing specific product 
categories with the highest export potential. Drawing on insights from our interactions 
with several prominent importers and exporters from the state, the report will assess 
West Bengal's readiness for exports and provide targeted recommendations to further 
enhance its position. The report will also present a comprehensive understanding 
of West Bengal's export landscape and a strategic roadmap, filled with specific 
tactics and measures, to unlock West Bengal's export potential and strengthen its 
competitive edge in the global marketplace. In order to achieve the goal of becoming 
one of the top five exporting states within the next five years, we will provide specific, 
measurable, achievable, relevant, and time bound (S.M.A.R.T.) objectives that can be 
implemented to improve West Bengal's export performance.
INTRODUCTION