--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C15
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 60 to Page 62
Word Range: 19157 - 20698
Word Count: 1,542
--------------------

[Page 60]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
60
• Establish a credit information center inspir ed 
by Japan’s Credit Risk Database (CRD) model. 
By collecting anonymous financial information 
in a traceless manner, this initiative will 
incentivize MSMEs to disclose accurate 
financial details. This approach enhances 
credit risk prediction and fosters improved 
access to credit facilities for MSMEs.
• Emulate Bangladesh's successful legislation 
by exploring the implementation of a similar 
pre-payment scheme for shipments. This 
strategic measure requires clients to make a 
50% upfront payment for orders scheduled 
for delivery 90 days from the transaction date. 
The scheme aims to alleviate cash crunch 
challenges, promote capital cost recovery, and 
reduce reliance on bill discounting, fostering 
financial resilience and opening avenues for 
further credit utilization.
Quality Standards And
Compliance
• Increasing focus on sustainability and ESG 
compliance could become a bottle neck 
for MSMEs if not educated early about its 
implications. 
• The government should take steps to 
enhance the quality testing facilities by 
upgrading current labs and establishing new 
state-of-the-art testing centres in coastal areas 
through diverse methods, including Public-
Private Partnerships (PPPs).
• Implement traceability for marine and 
agricultural produce to monitor, test, and 
certify products originating from the State, 
starting from the farm level, streamlining the 
process for organic certification.
• Provide access to information on the 
standards and technical regulations of our 
trading partners, especially when these differ 
from international standards. This information 
should be accessible to both exporters and 
the overseeing regulatory bodies involved in 
certifications.
• Launch a targeted campaign within the 
marine sector to raise awareness about 
hygiene standards at fishing harbours, 
emphasizing responsible practices regarding 
the use of antibiotics and similar measures.
• Textile manufacturers and handloom 
producers should be encouraged to 
certify their products through recognized 
certifications such as Zero Discharge of 
Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC), Certificates of 
Origin for Textiles & Made ups, Generalized 
System of Preferences certificates via REX 
(Registered Exporter System), and Tariff 
Rate Quota Certificates. Raising awareness 
about these certifications is important for the 
industry's sustainability and market access.
SMART GOAL: Within the next two years, 
West Bengal to enhance quality standards and 
compliance through various measures, including:
•
 Improve the quality testing infrastructure 
in West Bengal by upgrading existing labs 
and establishing new state-of-the-art testing 
centres through diverse methods, including 
Public-Private Partnerships.
•
 Provide accessible information on trading 
partners' standards and technical regulations.
• Increase the number of accredited testing 
centres in the state by 50% within the next 18 
months, providing access to quality testing 
services for a broader range of products.
Export Promotion Activities
• To enhance visibility of West Bengal based 
industries in export market, the State to 
formulate its own calendar of events through 
collaboration with various trade related 
associations, Central and State government 
organizations and annually organize 
participation in major International Events.
• The government should establish a robust 
analytical database for export decision-
making, encompassing market potential and 
aiding businesses in their strategic export 
endeavours.
• Establishing a specialized advisory support 
unit aimed at offering expert guidance to 
exporters, assisting in market research, trend 
identification, export strategy formulation, 
regulatory compliance, and international 
trade negotiations.
• Initiate inclusive export promotion campaigns 
to raise awareness about West Bengal's 
export potential, spotlight successful exporter 
stories, and underscore the advantages

[Page 61]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
61
of exporting. Utilize diverse channels such 
as digital platforms, trade exhibitions, and 
business events to engage target audiences 
and entice potential buyers.
• Facilitate access to affor dable and flexible 
export financing options for exporters, 
including export credit, working capital loans, 
and insurance products.
SMART GOAL: Within the next year, West Bengal 
to focus on enhancing export promotion activities 
to support local industries. The goal includes:
•
 Formulating an annual calendar of events 
for participation in major international 
events through collaboration with various 
trade-related associations, government 
organizations, and trade exhibitions.
•
 Establishing an analytical database for 
export decision-making and market potential 
assessment.
•
 Establishing a specialized advisory support 
unit offering expert guidance to exporters.
• Initiating inclusive export promotion 
campaigns to raise awareness about West 
Bengal's export potential, spotlight successful 
exporter stories, and utilize diverse channels 
to engage target audiences.
•
 Facilitating access to affor dable and flexible 
export financing options.
• Facilitate knowledge-sharing and mentorship 
for emerging exporters by connecting 
large exporters with small exporters, either 
in person or virtually, in a peer-to-peer 
framework.
Performance Management 
Mechanism
• Establish a quantitative Key Performance 
Indicator (KPI) system to gauge the efficacy of 
export promotion strategies, encompassing 
all provisions outlined in this policy.
• The State should consider “Scalable and 
Transferable” model, emphasizing the 
expansion and adaptability of successful 
practices to benefit diverse exporters, 
regions, products, and countries.
SMART GOAL: Within the next year, West 
Bengal to develop and implement a performance 
management mechanism for export promotion. 
The goal includes:
•
 Establish a quantitative Key Performance 
Indicator (KPI) system that measures and 
evaluates export promotion strategies, 
including but not limited to:
 - Track a 20% increase in the number of 
  new exporters actively participating in 
  export activities within the state.
 - Monitor a 15% growth in the total export 
  volume and value of products originating 
  from West Bengal.
 - Reduce the average processing 
  time for export-related procedures and 
  documentation by at least 25%.
 - Establish and implement a 'Scalable and 
  Transferable' model to expand and adapt 
  successful practices (knowledge sharing), 
  with the goal of applying these practices 
  in at least three dif ferent regions and 
  sectors within West Bengal.
Promotion of E-Commerce
• The State government should collaborate with 
e-commerce platforms like Amazon, Flipkart, 
etc., to facilitate market access for “Made in 
West Bengal” products mapped to key focus 
sectors.
• The government should organize master 
classes on various aspects of e-commerce 
exports at district levels.
• Encourage development of e-commerce hubs 
in high movement zones, closer to demand 
locations and periphery of emerging cities.
SMART GOAL: Within the next year and a 
half, West Bengal to promote and enhance 
e-commerce activities. The goal includes:
•
 Collaborating with e-commerce platforms like 
Amazon and Flipkart to facilitate the listing 
and market access for at least 200 'Made in 
West Bengal' products within the next 12 
months.
•
 Organizing and conducting 20 master classes 
on various aspects of e-commerce exports at 
the district level within the next year.

[Page 62]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
62
• Encouraging the development of at least two 
e-commerce hubs in high-traffic areas, closer 
to demand locations, and on the periphery of 
emerging cities within the next 18 months.
• Expand the Silpa Sathi platform's user-
friendliness for importers by offering 
multilingual support, including Spanish, 
French, and German languages.
Promote Geographical
Indication (GI) Registrations2
West Bengal has 22 GI registrations as on date 
across handicrafts (11), agricultural (7), and food 
stuff (4) categories. As part of the National GI 
Drive Mission in January 2024, West Bengal has 
secured Geographical Indication (GI) tags for 
products such as Sundarban honey, Black Nunia 
rice from Jalpaiguri district, and Tangail, Gorod, 
and Kadiyal sarees. Additional products suitable 
for geo-tagging consideration include:
Food and Agricultural Products:
1. Ashapur and Nawabganj Brinjals: Known for 
their distinctive sweetness and taste due to 
specific soil and cultivation methods in these 
regions.
2. Mecha Sandesh from Beliatore: A sweet, 
cheese-like confectionery made with unique 
flavors and production methods, potentially 
eligible for GI protection.
3. Khalsi Honey from Sundarbans: Honey with 
unique medicinal properties collected using 
traditional methods in the Sundarbans 
ecosystem.
Handicrafts and Textiles:
1. Murshidabadi Silk: Recognized for intricate 
designs, weaving techniques, and use of 
natural dyes, distinguishing it from other silks 
in India.
2. Conch Shell Craft from Hatagram, Bankura: 
Intricate crafts depicting deities and motifs, 
showcasing unique skills and using local 
conch shells.
Art and Music:
1. Shantiniketan's Ektara: A string instrument 
made traditionally from gourd and animal 
skin, holding cultural significance and unique 
crafting techniques.
2. Simlapal's Singing Bowl: Hand-hammered 
metal bowls with unique sounds used in 
meditation and music, potentially eligible 
for GI recognition due to specific crafting 
techniques and cultural significance.
SMART GOAL: Within the next two years, the 
West Bengal government should promote 
and increase the number of GI registrations in 
the state, focusing on the products identified 
above. The goal is to achieve a 25% increase in 
GI registrations by implementing measures that 
include: 
• Establish support cells for each GI in the State 
for addressing quality issues, IP infringement 
issues.
• Clearly communicate the purpose and 
process of GI registration to producers and 
consumers.
• Provide logistic support for accessing offline/
online marketplaces via dedicated call 
centres.
• Provide training and literacy to producers with 
respect to rules and regulations.
• Collaborate with e-commerce platforms.
Procurement of Raw
Materials
• To derive benefit of scale and enhance 
competitiveness, MSME’s are required to 
procure raw materials at a reasonable rate. 
West Bengal is rich in varied resources 
essential for a wide array of MSMEs. The 
government aims to facilitate efficient and 
cost-effective sourcing of these required 
raw materials for MSMEs. The government 
is required to take appropriate steps to 
establish linkages amongst MSMEs and 
Central/State organizations for sourcing of 
crucial raw materials.
2 Geographical Indication (GI) registration is a type of intellectual property right that grants legal 
protection to products.