--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C73
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 62
Word Range: 21199 - 21448
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 62]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
62
• Encouraging the development of at least two 
e-commerce hubs in high-traffic areas, closer 
to demand locations, and on the periphery of 
emerging cities within the next 18 months.
• Expand the Silpa Sathi platform's user-
friendliness for importers by offering 
multilingual support, including Spanish, 
French, and German languages.
Promote Geographical
Indication (GI) Registrations2
West Bengal has 22 GI registrations as on date 
across handicrafts (11), agricultural (7), and food 
stuff (4) categories. As part of the National GI 
Drive Mission in January 2024, West Bengal has 
secured Geographical Indication (GI) tags for 
products such as Sundarban honey, Black Nunia 
rice from Jalpaiguri district, and Tangail, Gorod, 
and Kadiyal sarees. Additional products suitable 
for geo-tagging consideration include:
Food and Agricultural Products:
1. Ashapur and Nawabganj Brinjals: Known for 
their distinctive sweetness and taste due to 
specific soil and cultivation methods in these 
regions.
2. Mecha Sandesh from Beliatore: A sweet, 
cheese-like confectionery made with unique 
flavors and production methods, potentially 
eligible for GI protection.
3. Khalsi Honey from Sundarbans: Honey with 
unique medicinal properties collected using 
traditional methods in the Sundarbans 
ecosystem.
Handicrafts and Textiles:
1. Murshidabadi Silk: Recognized for intricate 
designs, weaving techniques, and use of 
natural dyes, distinguishing it from other silks 
in India.
2. Conch Shell Craft from Hatagram, Bankura: 
Intricate crafts depicting deities and motifs, 
showcasing unique skills and using local 
conch shells.
Art and Music:
1. Shantiniketan's Ektara: A string instrument 
made traditionally from gourd and animal 
skin, holding cultural significance and unique 
crafting techniques.
2. Simlapal's Singing Bowl: Hand-hammered 
metal bowls with unique sounds used in 
meditation and music, potentially eligible 
for GI recognition due to specific crafting 
techniques and cultural significance.
SMART GOAL: Within the next two years, the 
West Bengal government should promote 
and increase the number of GI registrations in 
the state, focusing on the products identified 
above. The goal is to achieve a 25% increase in 
GI registrations by implementing measures that 
include: 
• Establish support cells for each GI in the State 
for addressing quality issues, IP infringement 
issues.
• Clearly communicate the purpose and 
process of GI registration to producers and 
consumers.
• Provide logistic support for accessing offline/
online marketplaces via dedicated call 
centres.
• Provide training and literacy to producers with 
respect to rules and regulations.
• Collaborate with e-commerce platforms.
Procurement of Raw
Materials
• To derive benefit of scale and enhance 
competitiveness, MSME’s are required to 
procure raw materials at a reasonable rate. 
West Bengal is rich in varied resources 
essential for a wide array of MSMEs. The 
government aims to facilitate efficient and 
cost-effective sourcing of these required 
raw materials for MSMEs. The government 
is required to take appropriate steps to 
establish linkages amongst MSMEs and 
Central/State organizations for sourcing of 
crucial raw materials.
2 Geographical Indication (GI) registration is a type of intellectual property right that grants legal 
protection to products.