--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-103-C22
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-103
Page Range: Page 23
Word Range: 6317 - 6566
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 23]
Strategy for unlocking export potential for MSMEs in West Bengal
23
Potential For West Bengal
India's Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) are pivotal 
instruments in driving export growth, and West 
Bengal, a key economic player, is poised to reap 
significant benefits from key agreements such 
as the India-UAE Comprehensive Economic 
Partnership Agreement (CEPA), the South Asian 
Free Trade Area (SAFTA), the India- ASEAN 
Comprehensive Economic Cooperation 
Agreement (CECA) and the Australia-India 
Economic Cooperation and Trade Agreement 
(ECTA).
Our analysis focuses on the above three crucial 
arrangements between India and its regional 
partners. Collectively, these FTAs cover more 
than 50% of West Bengal's exports by country. 
The India-UAE CEPA presents a substantial 
opportunity for West Bengal's export sector. 
Signed on February 18, 2022, and in force since 
May 1, 2022, this agreement eliminates duties on 
97% of the UAE's tariff lines, offering immediate 
zero-duty access to labour-intensive sectors 
such as Gems and Jewellery, Textiles, Leather, 
and more. With the UAE accounting for 12% 
of West Bengal's exports in FY2023, this opens 
up significant market access for products with 
a competitive edge, especially in commodity 
groups encompassing Fish, Dairy Produce, 
Animal and Vegetable Fats, Sugars, and Chemical 
Products. The certification process by the UAE's 
Ministry of Economy ensures compliance with 
rules of origin criteria, securing the benefits.
West Bengal's exports to SAFTA (South Asian 
Free Trade Area) member countries, constituting 
over 30% of total exports in FY2023, are well-
positioned to benefit from the trade arrangement. 
Established in 2004 and effective since January 1, 
2006, SAFTA prioritizes substantial manufacturing 
processes, involving a Change of Tariff Heading 
(CTH) at the four-digit Harmonized System (HS) 
and a value content of 40% (30% for LDCSs). West 
Bengal's strengths in key commodity groups 
make it a strategic player in enhancing exports 
to SAFTA nations. Another comprehensive 
framework which can help boost goods, as 
well as services exports to South Asia is the 
India-ASEAN CECA (Comprehensive Economic 
Cooperation Agreement), initiated on January 1, 
2010, following six years of negotiations. Rooted 
in the 2003 India-ASEAN CECA, this agreement 
aims to deepen economic ties by reducing trade 
and investment barriers. West Bengal's diverse 
export basket, spanning textiles, chemicals, and 
machinery, positions it favourably to leverage 
the opportunities arising from the India-ASEAN 
CECA.
Signed on April 2, 2022, and effective since 
December 29, 2022, the Australia-India Economic 
Cooperation and Trade Agreement (ECTA) 
facilitates reciprocal trade, where Australia 
exports raw materials to India, and India exports 
finished goods. The agreement ensures that 
96% of imports from India are tariff-free, a figure 
set to reach 100% by January 1, 2026. Notably, 
this grants duty-free access to numerous Indian 
goods, including textiles and leather, in the 
Australian market. It is estimated that the trade 
deal will help in almost doubling bilateral 
commerce to $45–50 billion in about five years. 
The potential for closer economic ties between 
Australia and India is set to be enhanced through 
the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation 
Agreement (CECA), which will build upon the 
outcomes of the ECTA.
After an exhaustive analysis of commodities 
under preferential taxation across these trade 
agreements and tallying it with the major 
commodities exported by West Bengal, we've 
identified specific commodities (HS Code 2 
digits) where West Bengal holds a competitive 
advantage:
1) HS Code 03 (Fish and crustaceans, molluscs, 
etc.)
2) HS Code 04 (Dairy produce, birds' eggs, etc.)
3) HS Code 05 (Products of animal origin)
4) HS Code 09 (Coffee, tea, mate, and spices)
5) HS Code 12 (Oil seeds and oleaginous fruits)
6) HS Code 13 (Lac, gums, resins, extracts, etc.)
7) HS Code 14 (Vegetable plaiting materials, 
etc.)
8) HS Code 15 (Animal or vegetable fats and 
oils)
9) HS Code 17 (Sugars and sugar confectionery)
10) HS Code 19 (Preparations of cereals, flour, 
etc.)
11) HS Code 21 (Miscellaneous edible 
preparations)