--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-104-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-104
Page Range: Page 5
Word Range: 3980 - 4229
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 5]
Xue et al. 10.3389/fsufs.2025.1649834
Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems 05 frontiersin.org
Solutions for this include the use of circular economy principles 
(Borrello et al., 2016) and blockchain technologies aimed at improving 
traceability (Chen et al., 2021; Menon and Jain, 2024).
3.3 Logistics and infrastructure risks
Dependence on logistics and infrastructure can put companies at 
risk in terms of storage issues, transportation problems, and port 
troubles. Such problems can severely disrupt the food distribution 
network along with the performance of the company and its processes 
from supplier to customer (Ali and Govindan, 2021; Abu Nahleh et al., 
2023). The outbreak of COVID-19 led to issues with transportation, 
inadequate storage facilities, food loss, and a shortage of labor, all of 
which impacted the availability, access, utilization, and stability of 
food. These disturbances not only disrupted food production and 
supply but also compromised food quality, freshness, hygiene, and 
cost-efficiency, exacerbating food insecurity in both the Global North 
as well as Global South ( Abu Nahleh et  al., 2023 ). Incorporating 
Industry 4.0 technology (I4T) can offset the negative impacts of 
operational risks affecting the performance of agricultural food 
distribution networks ( Ali and Govindan, 2021 ). Digital 
transformation minimizes operational risk such as in COVID-19. In 
South Asia, the research conducted on logistics operation, more 
especially in transportation and warehousing functions, can enhance 
supply chain resilience (Umar and Wilson, 2023).
3.4 Labor and workforce risks
Seasonal and migrant worker shortages coupled with strikes have 
heavily affected all links of AFSC ( Kuizinaitė et al., 2023). Human 
workforce is very important for smooth functioning of supply chain. 
During periods of labor shortages, Canada’s peak agricultural season 
and its reliance on temporary immigrant worker programs may result 
in disruptions, food losses, and reduced competitiveness (Preibisch, 
2010). Alterations in immigration labor policies have afforded 
employers more sway in terms of staffing rights. This serves to 
underscore the value of immigrant labor in tackling shortages and 
sustaining productivity and stability in the labor market. As per Abu 
Nahleh et al. (2023), food losses and logistics disruptions occurred 
along the food value chain due to labor shortages, increased 
transportation costs, and limited storage capacity during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The deficiencies in AFSC have unmasked their 
vulnerabilities and their dependence on a flexible labor strategy like 
digitization and automation ( Ali and Govindan, 2021 ; Dadi 
et al., 2021).
3.5 Political and regulatory risks
An export ban or regulatory changes are the main risks that can 
disrupt AFSC. It can disrupt the global supply chain of food and 
agriculture. Most importantly, it can impact countries that lack self-
sufficiency in agri-food ( Kuizinaitė et  al., 2023 ). According to 
Koppenberg et  al. (2020) , more than 20 countries have AFSC 
disruptions. Unanticipated governmental rules and regulatory changes 
could threaten the agri-food distribution. Because of coronavirus 
disrupting the border and food trade, better policy measures could limit 
the number of interruptions. The measures may relate to border delays, 
certification and food trade rules (Deconinck et al., 2020). The agri-
food distribution faces major risk standards due to government policy 
reforms and compliance measures (Kuizinaitė et al., 2023). Excessive 
and inadequate regulation can harm the agricultural food sector, as 
excessive regulation may limit innovation and competitiveness, while 
insufficient regulation can lead to instability, including food safety 
issues, fraud, and unethical behavior (Zhao et al., 2017; Kuizinaitė et al., 
2023). Changes in regulations can disrupt the flow of goods within the 
supply chain, leading to delays and inefficiencies. During the 
COVID-19 pandemic, sudden border and certification rule changes led 
to shipment delays and spoilage of perishable agri-food products. 
Adjusting a company’s production, package, or even the bus one of 
those cargo ships or trucks is likely to be costly. As per the study by 
Srivastava and Dashora (2021) and Menon and Jain (2024), to alleviate 
those risks, the policymakers and the stakeholders within the industry 
should look for innovative ways to achieve a balance between 
effectiveness and security. This can be  achieved with the help of 
electronic traceability technology and blockchain, through which 
transparency and compliance can be enhanced.
3.6 Technological and cyber risks
Researchers have proposed adopting digital monitoring tools and 
innovations (such as AI, IoT and blockchain) to improve the 
traceability, openness, and efficiency of agricultural food distribution 
networks, which cyber-attacks could significantly compromise (Dadi 
et al., 2021; Ali and Govindan, 2021). According to Dadi et al. (2021), 
automation and digital platforms may help in handling issues 
concerning food safety and traceability but might also cause new risks. 
Tech platforms such as IoT, blockchain, and AI can help simplify 
processes and combat vulnerabilities and setbacks within the 
agricultural food distribution network (Ali and Govindan, 2021). For 
example, digital traceability systems can boost efficiency, support food 
protection, and increase openness throughout the distribution 
network (Charlebois et al., 2024). Digital twins can help create more 
transparency, reduce lead time, respond to unforeseen events, and 
make better use of current practices and resources. However, these 
technologies also bring new risks. Adoption of Industry 4.0 requires 
skilled workers, funding and economic benefits. Agricultural food 
supply chain can also face data privacy and cybersecurity threats from 
digital platforms ( Saha et  al., 2024 ). Technological solutions in 
agriculture rely heavily on global supply chains, which can create new 
vulnerabilities. Many of the components for technologies like IoT, 
blockchain, and AI come from far-off, expensive suppliers in the 
Global North. This dependence makes these systems prone to 
disruptions, which, honestly, raises questions about their long-term 
reliability and security. Moroever, sustainability could also be  a 
big issue.
3.7 Social and consumer risks
The agricultural food supply chain is significantly affected by 
changes in consumer demands—for example, the growing preference 
for organic, plant-based, and sustainable foods. These changes require