--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-108-C36
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-108
Page Range: Page 9
Word Range: 8953 - 9202
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 9]
Sustainable Production and Consumption 39 (2023) 203–215
211
The third most critical barrier is a lack of stringent national CE 
policy. According to Ludlow et al. (2021) policy-related barriers are 
significant. Currently, India lacks stringent laws, rules and regulations 
for dealing with end-of-life products or components. This indicates the 
need to develop stringent policies to reduce waste through the adoption 
of circular practices ( Mangla et al., 2018 ). 
6. Strategy mapping and its implications 
Weights from the BWM-LBWA approach and expert judgements were 
used to identify and evaluate the strategies. Similarly, experts have 
identified and validated strategies as seen from previous literature. 
Table 10 shows a list of strategies. 
The experts validated all of the identified strategies shown in 
Table 10 . Experts were also asked to rate the strategies on a scale of 1 to 
7 against each barrier. The weights for criteria (barriers) were taken 
from the BWM-LBWA results to measure the weightage. The CoCoSo 
method was used to rank strategies; final results are displayed in 
Table 11 . 
The results of the CoCoSo application indicate that the strategy 
alternative ‘focus on enhancing commitment from top management to -
wards sustainable production and consumption ’ (S12) is the most 
promising solution to address the issue. Based on these results, it is 
concluded that workforce training plays an important role in success -
fully implementing digital technologies in FSC to achieve SPC. 
Significant changes that have positively impacted product end-of-life 
include Industry 4.0 technologies, data management, real-time decision- 
making and innovative practices. Organisations that implement digital 
technologies may improve SPC while decreasing food loss and waste 
( G ¨olzer and Fritzsche, 2017 ). Training and workshops aimed at devel -
oping a skilled workforce will aid efficient implementation of digital 
technologies. As technology advances, the skills gap between the exist -
ing workforce and the required skill set must be narrowed. 
Today's ecosystem requires collaboration among supply chain part -
ners; there must be high levels of coordination involving food producers, 
trading firms, corporations and other external parties. It will gradually 
strengthen the food supply chain to make it more agile and resilient. In 
addition, participation in the FSC helps stakeholders improve their 
financial performance by adding value and gaining a competitive 
advantage while maintaining ecological sustainability; overall sustain -
ability leads to lower carbon footprints and a decrease in food waste 
( Zhao et al., 2021 ; Yadav et al., 2022 ). 
The current study identifies ‘digital technologies for cross-sector 
collaboration ’ as one of the effective strategies. Mensi and Udenigwe 
(2021) discussed how multi-sector collaboration could assist various 
food retail internet economies in making significant contributions to 
sustainable food waste recovery, reducing food waste and achieving 
SDG targets. Jagtap and Duong (2019) discussed the use of big data to 
improve the design of product networks. Irani et al. (2018) went on to 
explain how data modelling techniques can be used to manage inventory 
turnovers, improve the volume of sales, improve consumer food 
retailing experiences (product offerings and cash discounts) in super -
stores and improve food security. Data analytics has been extensively 
researched for predicting demand, selecting sustainable suppliers and 
engagement ( Seyedan and Mafakheri, 2020 ). It has been demonstrated 
in a few empirical studies that big data contributes positively to the long- 
term viability of the FSC ( Barbosa et al., 2018 ; Dubey et al., 2019 ). 
Customers are the most important stakeholders in bringing about 
change in sustainable consumption, so digital technologies should be 
used to communicate and interact with them directly. App-based 
communication will aid in the promotion of sustainable consumption 
education and can instill a sense of responsibility in consumers. 
Based on the results, a strategic framework is developed on the level 
of digital technology implementation and organisational barriers as 
shown in Fig. 2 . 
The study sheds light on the barriers faced by firms to achieve SPC 
through digital technologies and how changes can boost circular per -
formance in the current disruptive environment. Food waste is a massive 
problem in both developing and developed nations; the causes are 
diverse. Very few types of food waste are unfit for human consumption 
and must be reprocessed to recover their value. Additionally, environ -
mental risks and hygiene issues are associated with managing food 
waste. Advanced technologies have the potential to aid businesses in 
addressing challenges and creating value. Using BDA, IoT and AI, food 
waste can be reduced through traceability, information sharing and 
decision-making support. This study suggests that firms should 
concentrate on their structural and strategic factors for implementation 
of digital technologies to improve SPC in FSC. It primarily contributes to 
the analysis of barriers identified and the strategies needed to overcome 
them, in order to improve the implementation of digital technologies for 
SPC of FSC. In the strategic vision and planning of an organisation, it is 
essential to have a digitally-enabled FSC with SPC. According to the 
results, the commitment of top management in undertaking initiatives to 
improve the efficiency of SPC implementation through digital technol -
ogies is significant. For long-term benefits, managers must acknowledge 
organisational barriers in the implementation of digital technologies for 
SPC initiatives and the economic benefits of SPC adoption. This study 
also indicates that digital technologies can assist in informing supply 
chain actors and the agricultural community to accept SPC initiatives in 
FSC. Apps and digital campaigns may augment FSC's SPC capacities. 
This study aims to raise stakeholder awareness about adopting sus -
tainable consumption practices. 
Integration of digital technologies has the potential to transform the 
FSC in rural and semi-urban areas. Before implementing digital tech -
nologies in the agriculture and food sector, certain conditions must be 
met; these include infrastructure, connectivity, network coverage, 
internet access, electricity supply, affordability and institutional support 
( fao.org ). Digital technologies may offer significant benefits to farmers 
and other rural businesses through the provision of information, stra -
tegic partnerships, the provision of support services such as training, 
finance and legal services, and, most importantly, the ability to reach 
markets and customers ( fao.org ). This study provides insights to 
decision-makers, policymakers and industry decision-makers to 
encourage them to adopt strategies to mitigate the barriers that hinder 
Table 10 
Strategies for enhancing SPC through digital technologies.  
Code Strategies References 
S1 Stringent CE policy for digital technology 
implementation to minimize food waste 
Massaro et al. (2021) 
S2 Enhancing traceability through digital 
technologies for control of waste and enhancing 
SPC 
Feng et al. (2020) . 
S3 Monitoring the implementation of digital 
technologies 
Kayikci et al. (2022) 
S4 Standardizing the protocols for digital 
technology implementation 
Tseng et al. (2021) 
S5 Digital technologies for enhancing cross-sector 
collaboration through the CE model for SPC of 
FSC 
Lopes de Sousa 
Jabbour et al. (2021) 
S6 Digital technology implementation absorption in 
FSC vision and its strategic planning 
Lopes de Sousa 
Jabbour et al. (2021) 
S7 Training and workshops to develop a skilled 
workforce 
Sachs et al. (2019) 
S8 Financial support for technology upgradation for 
SPC of FSC 
Alkhuzaim et al. 
(2021) 
S9 Industry 4.0 based circular design model for SPC 
of FSC 
Annosi et al. (2021) 
S10 Government incentives for SPC of FSC through 
digital technologies 
Roy et al. (2022) 
S11 Connect to customers through digital 
technologies to enhance sustainable 
consumption measure 
Kamble et al. (2020) 
S12 Focus on enhancing commitment from top 
management towards SPC 
Roy and Singh (2017)  
M. Sharma et al.