--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-108-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-108
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 3031 - 3280
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
Sustainable Production and Consumption 39 (2023) 203–215
205
coordination of a circular economy. Mangla et al. (2018) identified the 
most significant roadblocks hindering the circular FSC whereas Gait ´an- 
Cremaschi et al. (2019) emphasised agent-based modelling for sustain -
ability transition. Torkayesh et al. (2021) evaluated Eastern European 
healthcare sectors using the BWM-LBWA-CoCoSo framework. The 
compelling arguments made by researchers underscore the need to build 
a more comprehensive SPC framework for food chains ( Lehtokunnas 
et al., 2022 ). FSC have several challenges as a result of complicated 
internal and external indicators, such as pre-harvesting seasonality, high 
regularity, perishability, warehousing, in-transit losses and damages, 
adulteration, recycling and reuse ( Matzembacher et al., 2020 ; Papar -
gyropoulou et al., 2014 ; Yadav et al., 2022 ). The other issue is the in -
crease in food production due to a shift in food consumption patterns 
( Matzembacher et al., 2021 ). Consequently, SPC in the FSC is an abso -
lute necessity for future generations ( Matzembacher et al., 2021 ). 
A thorough examination of prior relevant works has scrutinized the 
literature on SPC. The SLR timeline chosen was between 2010 and 2022. 
This involved “ Sustainable production and consumption ” AND “ food 
supply chain ” OR “ Sustainable Supply Chain Management ” AND “ Agri- 
food ” OR “ Digitalisation ” AND “ Sustainable Production and Consump -
tion ” OR “ Information technology ” AND “ Agri-food ” AND “ sustainabil -
ity ” OR “ Digitalisation ” AND “ Agri-food ” AND “ sustainability. ” In the 
initial round of searches, 214 articles were discovered. All conference 
proceedings' papers, non-English papers and duplicate papers were 
eliminated in the second round. In the third and final round, 49 papers 
were chosen after examining the abstracts and eliminating articles 
irrelevant to the current study. 
2.1. Sustainable production and consumption, food supply chains and 
digital technologies 
During the Rio summit in 1992, world leaders generally agreed that 
unsystematic patterns were causing ongoing degradation of the biolog -
ical environment. Sustainable practices are relevant to economic shifts 
and long-term economic prosperity ( European Commission, 2012 ). 
Numerous highlighted theories, such as the theories of social practice 
and resource-based view, demonstrate that SPC actions stimulate the 
needs of individuals, groups, communities and society as a whole 
( Takacs et al., 2022 ). The United Nations Environmental Program 
( UNEP, 2020 ) described SPC as a sustainable approach that assures a 
dignified and quality existence for all, cautious and optimum utilisation 
of products and linked services to meet fundamental needs through 
limiting the usage and waste of natural resources. 
Global food waste amounts to around one-third of annual production 
( Singh et al., 2022 ). According to previous studies, the magnitude of 
food waste is a major concern for both developing and developed na -
tions ( Gustavsson et al., 2011 ; Singh et al., 2022 ). However, there are 
numerous reasons for this waste ( Luo et al., 2021 ). Due to structural 
differences, only a few types of food waste are unfit for human con -
sumption and must be reprocessed for value recovery ( Sonnino and 
McWilliam, 2011 ; Lee and Stuckey, 2022 ). On the other hand, envi -
ronmental hazards and hygiene difficulties are associated with food 
waste management ( Aguilar et al., 2022 ). In light of the worrisome 
socio-ecological problems in the ecosystem, short-term improvements or 
adjustments are insufficient to tackle the challenges to sustainability. 
Instead, a technology-driven systematic strategy is needed to address the 
issue ( Fuchs and Lorek, 2005 ; Lorek and Fuchs (2013) ; Annosi et al., 
2021 ; Sharma et al., 2022 ). Advanced technologies have the ability to 
aid businesses in tackling difficulties and creating value ( Eshghali et al., 
2023 ). There is a need for strong policy frameworks to encourage the 
general population's consumption patterns that are sustainable ( Goyal 
et al., 2022 ). 
The circular economy (CE) gives a new perspective on SPC for FSC by 
treating food waste as a vital source for co-creating value ( Kumar et al., 
2022 ). According to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) , extraction 
of organic food waste from landfills can generate economic and 
environmental benefits. Santagata et al. (2021) outlined various op -
portunities for the recovery of food waste in the CE. To focus on the 
transition to CE is very relevant to FSC and waste management litera -
ture; however studies have emphasised the importance of consumers 
and consumption patterns as well ( Lehtokunnas et al., 2022 ). 
2.2. Barriers to digitalisation technologies in the food industry 
21 barriers preventing the deployment of digital technologies in FSC 
to achieve SPC were identified from previous studies. Table 1 provides a 
description of these barriers. 
Thirty experts were contacted to analyse the barriers by question -
naire, but only 18 responded. The experts were from the firms' middle 
and upper management. These experts were divided into three cate -
gories: retailers, food processors and distribution channels, which 
included supermarkets. Table 2 gives information on the experts. 
72.2 % of the experts were men, while 27.7 % were women. The age 
distribution of experts is as follows: > 30 years (55.5 %), 30 – 40 years 
(27.7 %) and > 40 years (16.5 %). The experts carefully examined the 
barriers' descriptions in the survey instrument and evaluated them based 
on their significance for achieving SPC in FSC. Each expert has more 
than a decade of industrial experience and is familiar with digital 
technology implementation, either partially or in supply chain proced -
ures. In a variety of businesses, experts are recognised as production 
planners, global operations managers, distribution managers, food 
control managers, analysts, consultants or supervisors. Previous studies 
based on expert judgement have considered 2 – 20 experts as an appro -
priate sample; there is no limitation of sample size population ( Li et al., 
2019 ; Yavas and Ozkan-Ozen, 2020 ). 
3. Research methodology 
The present investigation was conducted in two phases. The ques -
tionnaire was shared with the experts (Supplementary File). All of the 
experts were in senior managerial roles in the food sector in North In -
dian companies. During the initial phase, barriers were identified, 
validated and evaluated using BWM and LBWA techniques. These 
techniques helped determine the aggregate weight of the barriers to 
identify the most significant. During the second phase, the strategies 
were investigated through a literature review, examined by the decision- 
makers and evaluated using the CoCoSo method. The flow chart for the 
research methodology is shown in Fig. 1 . 
3.1. Best worst method 
Razeai developed the Best Worst Method (BWM) in 2015; it is a 
pairwise comparison-based method. This method has an advantage over 
other pairwise comparison techniques due to its capacity to handle 
discrepancies. This is a reliable method for determining pairwise com -
parisons between criteria and determining their optimal weight. ( Mok -
tadir et al., 2019 ; Orji et al., 2020 ). BWM has been successfully 
implemented in a variety of fields, such as manufacturing, sustainability, 
waste management, selection of supply chain partners, green perfor -
mance etc. 
Using a questionnaire containing a 1-to-9 linguistic scale, each 
expert determines the pairwise comparisons between the best criterion 
and the other criteria. Each expert is asked to comment on the degree to 
which a particular criterion is considered superior to the others. The 
score is ‘1 ’ if an expert believes the best criterion is ‘equally significant to 
other criteria, ’ and ‘9 ’ if the pairwise comparison is ‘very important to ’ . 
The following steps are included in this procedure: 
Step1. The experts identify and define a set of criteria 
as { c
1
, c
2
, ……… c
n .
}
Step 2. Determination of the best (B) and worst (W) criteria by the 
experts. 
M. Sharma et al.