--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-108-C01
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-108
Page Range: Page 1 to Page 2
Word Range: 1 - 1850
Word Count: 1,850
--------------------

[Page 1]
Sustainable Production and Consumption 39 (2023) 203–215
Available online 18 April 2023
2352-5509/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Institution of Chemical Engineers. This is an open access article under the CC BY license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Overcoming barriers to implement digital technologies to achieve 
sustainable production and consumption in the food sector: A circular 
economy perspective 
Manu Sharma
a , g , 1
, Sudhanshu Joshi
b , h , 1
, Kannan Govindan
c , d , e , f , * , 1 
a
Department of Management Studies, Graphic Era Deemed to be University, India 
b
Operations and Supply Chain Management Area, School of Management, Doon University, India 
c
Center for Sustainable Supply Chain Engineering, Department of Technology and Innovation, Danish Institute for Advanced Study, University of Southern Denmark, 
Campusvej 55, Odense M, Denmark 
d
China Institute of FTZ Supply Chain, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai 201306, China 
e
Yonsei Frontier Lab, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea 
f
School of Business, Woxsen University, Sadasivpet, Telangana, India 
g
Guildhall School of Business and Law, London Metropolitan University, London 
h
Australian Artificial Intelligence Institute (AAII), University of Technology Sydney, Australia   
ARTICLE INFO  
Editor: Prof Konstantinos Tsagarakis  
Keywords: 
Sustainable production and consumption 
Digital technologies 
Food supply chains 
Circular economy 
ABSTRACT  
Food security and waste minimisation are the main concerns for the management of food supply chains (FSC), as 
> 33 % of global food production is wasted or lost due to mismanagement. Stakeholders must address the 
ongoing issues, such as resource scarcity, climate change, waste creation etc. to create an environment conducive 
to sustainable production and consumption (SPC) and to promote economic sustainability. Resource efficiency 
and waste minimization are necessary for SPC in the FSC. Technologies from the Industry 4.0 era have 
demonstrated their ability to address these problems effectively. However, there are barriers to the adoption of 
digital technology because of internal or external issues. Therefore, it is necessary to examine the challenges 
faced by the food industry while applying digital technology to attain SPC. The current study has adopted an 
integrated methodology of Best-Worst-Method (BWM)-Level Based Weight Assessment (LBWA) and Combined 
Compromise Solution (CoCoSo) methods to analyse the barriers in implementing digital technologies to achieve 
SPC in FSC. Strategic measures to overcome these barriers are suggested. The BWM-LBWA-CoCoSo technique is 
used for the first time in this study to evaluate the barriers and determine the most effective strategies. According 
to the BWM-LBWA research, “ organisational barriers ” are the main impediment to the adoption of digital 
technology for SPC in the FSC. According to CoCoSo findings, the best way to overcome the major barriers is to 
“ focus on improving commitment from senior management towards SPC. ” The study gives decision-makers in -
formation about the major barriers in utilizing advanced digital technology to achieve SPC in FSC.   
1. Introduction 
Sustainable production and consumption (SPC) is regarded as the 
main driving force behind economic reform and sustainable growth. Its 
importance is highlighted by Sustainable Development Goal-12 (SDG) of 
the United Nations, which aims to promote sustainable development and 
responsible production ( Beier et al., 2018 ; Guo et al., 2022 ). Recently, 
reverse logistics, closed-loop supply chains, circular economy acts as an 
environemnetal and sustainability tool in various supply chain 
applications ( Kannan et al., 2023 ; Butt et al., 2023 ; Aryee and Adaku, 
2023 ; Mondal et al., 2022 ). A new era in which the integration of triple 
bottom line dimensions, including environmental, social and economic 
progress, is required for the expansion of the economy in a sustainable 
manner. National policies and strategies assist stakeholders in managing 
tradeoffs and fostering synergy between SPC and SDGs ( Obersteiner 
et al., 2016 ). Data management, real-time decision-making, creative 
approaches for extending the end-of-life and shelf life of perishable 
items etc. have changed throughout the present Industry 4.0 era; this has 
unquestionably enhanced SPC in FSC ( G ¨olzer and Fritzsche, 2017 ; Ekren 
* Corresponding author at: China Institute of FTZ Supply Chain, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai 201306, China. 
E-mail address: kgov@iti.sdu.dk (K. Govindan).   
1 
The author's order is based on academic seniority. 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Sustainable Production and Consumption 
journal homepag e: www.el sevier.com/loc ate/spc 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2023.04.002 
Received 23 August 2022; Received in revised form 27 March 2023; Accepted 3 April 2023

[Page 2]
Sustainable Production and Consumption 39 (2023) 203–215
204
et al., 2021 ). It is clear that digitalization has the potential to improve 
the SPC in FSC, but it still faces challenges including a conservative 
perception, a risk-averse culture, lack of technical expertise etc. 
( Mathews and Tan, 2016 ; Lezoche et al., 2020 ; Diaz-Ruiz et al., 2019 ). 
Some research papers have looked at environmental studies on SPC but 
there are few empirical studies on how digital technologies are being 
used in FSC to study SPC patterns ( Berkhout and Hertin, 2004 ; Li et al., 
2020 ; Heidenstr ø m and Hebrok, 2022 ). Beier et al. (2018) explored how 
the industry might achieve sustainable production growth, transparency 
and resource efficiency through digitization. The dynamic changes in 
society production and consumption requirements have been addressed 
by the Sustainable Development Agenda of the United Nations. Addi -
tionally, UN-SDG-12 guarantees SPC in all economies ( Bengtsson et al., 
2018 ; Gjorgievski et al., 2022 ). SPC barriers have not been thoroughly 
researched, and it is yet unknown which barriers prevent the deploy -
ment of digital technologies. Additionally, the path towards a circular 
economy (is less explored to achieve SPC in FSC. In emerging economies, 
the use of digital technology is still in its early stages, necessitating 
prompt evaluation ( Kurniawan et al., 2022 ). 
SPC focuses primarily on efficient resource mobilisation and catering 
to the basic needs of every household. It aims to bring about systemic 
changes such as minimising the dependence on scarce resources, 
changing practices and processes for reducing food waste, and 
enhancing food security ( O'Rourke and Lollo, 2015 ; Deka and Goswami, 
2022 ). SPC is based on three significant objectives:  
(a) Decoupling the environmental dilapidation caused by economic 
growth at the expense of environmental degradation and non- 
recycled waste; 
(b) Building the circularity approach across production and con -
sumption processes from cradle to gate to a cradle to cradle life 
cycle;  
(c) Building support systems for new developing countries to become 
self-reliant and eradicate poverty through low-cost, new and 
highly competitive technologies. 
Using modern digital technology, food waste management in a cir -
cular economy can accomplish the SDGs ( Mak et al., 2020 ). Moreover, 
food waste circularity will improve the value chain to minimize global 
greenhouse gas emissions ( Latka et al., 2022 ). The SPC patterns of food 
products are responsible for numerous environmental and climate 
changes which have a negative impact on human lifestyles and threaten 
future generations. As part of the compliance with the Paris Climate 
Agreement (2015), the SPC pattern is regarded as a strategic method of 
addressing these issues. As an integral aspect of the SDGs is aimed at 
achieving sustainable food systems, the European Union suggested a 
farm-to-fork strategy that ensures an SPC path towards sufficient and 
healthy food value chains ( UN, 2015 ; Von der Leyen, 2019 ; Kaufmann 
et al., 2022 ). 
Previous research indicates that digital technologies are essential for 
performance improvements ( Govindan et al., 2014 ) and the transition to 
sustainable food systems ( Joshi and Sharma, 2021 ; Marvin et al., 2022 ). 
It is noted that utilizing innovative technologies for pre- and post- 
harvest operations within agri-food value chains is a common aspect 
of digitalizing agricultural systems. Digital technologies encompass a 
broader array of tools and technologies, such as big data analytics 
(BDA), blockchain technology, the Internet of Things (IoT) and others. 
These technologies together reconfigure, realign and relink processes 
across organisational processes through continuously innovating busi -
ness models that aim to increase the value chain and firm-level profit -
ability ( Cane and Parra, 2020 ; Chauhan et al., 2021 ). Digital 
technologies provide advantages such as the assurance of inter-firm 
information exchange throughout supply chains to address lead time, 
in-transit losses and damages, end-user consumption habits, and overall 
food safety and security ( Strotmann et al., 2022 ). Additionally, digitally 
enabled supply chains generate downstream integration to fulfil the 
needs of the end client ( Annosi et al., 2021 ; Kurniawan et al., 2022 ). 
Multiple technologies, including BDA, machine learning and deep 
learning, are used to facilitate connectivity, information gathering and 
distribution, and data-driven decision-making ( Jun et al., 2021 ). 
Farooque et al. (2019) studied challenges to the circular food supply 
chain. Kamble et al. (2019) developed the modelling of IoT adoption 
hurdles in FSC; Annosi et al. (2019) highlighted the potential of digital 
technologies to prevent food waste. While earlier studies have addressed 
the challenges associated with building circular supply chains in the 
food industry, less attention has been dedicated to the barriers associ -
ated with applying digital technology to achieve SPC. In addition, 
strategic options to improve SPC in FSC have not been investigated in 
previous research. Consequently, the purpose of this study is to address 
the following two significant research questions: 
RQ1: What barriers exist in the implementation of digital technology 
to achieve SPC in the FSC? 
RQ2: What are the potential strategic solutions for overcoming bar -
riers in the FSC's deployment of digital technology to attain SPC? 
The current study proposes a framework for investigating and 
assessing the most significant barriers to the use of digital technologies 
in FSC in order to achieve SPC. Integrated BWM-LBWA-CoCoSo meth -
odologies have been utilised in this work. Based on the food sector de -
cision-makers' responses, the proposed framework has been evaluated. 
The study's most significant implications are the analysis of barriers to 
the application of digital technologies in FSC from a CE perspective. The 
study provides the following significant contributions:  
• Critical barriers to implementing digital technologies in FSC to 
achieve SPC are identified, assessed and ranked.  
• Strategic solutions for mitigating the adverse effect of barriers in 
implementing digital technologies for SPC in FSC are offered. 
The order of the subsequent sections of the paper is as follows. 
Section 2 discusses the literature review on the existing barriers to 
digitization in FSC in order to attain SPC. The third section describes the 
study's research methodology. In Section 4 , the achieved results are 
discussed. Strategy mapping is presented in Section 5 . Section 6 con -
cludes the study. 
2. Literature review 
Prior studies have evaluated sustainability of the FSC. Govindan and 
Hasanagic (2018) demonstrated the barriers and possible solutions for 
Nomenclature 
A
B 
Best-to-Others vector 
Aw Others-to-Worst vector 
BWM Best Worst Method 
CoCoSo Combined Compromise Solution 
CI Consistency Index 
CR Consistency Ratio 
CE Circular Economy 
LBWA Level Based Weight Assessment 
w Weights 
SDG Sustainable Development Goals 
ξ * Consistency index 
r
0 
the elasticity coefficient 
K
ia 
arithmetic mean of WSM and WPM scores 
K
ib 
sum of WSM and WPM scores 
K
ic 
balanced compromise score of WSM and WPM  
M. Sharma et al.