--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C41
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 21 to Page 22
Word Range: 10841 - 11090
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 21]
high-information quality can st imulate SC performance through improving the relationship
( Jonsson and Gustavsson, 2008).
The safety issues are further divided into food safety standards and food safety
management system (FSMS). For the growth of the domestic food retail sector and high-
value exports, food safety standard is an essential factor (Unnevehr, 2015; Shukla et al. ,
2018). Jacxsens et al. (2015) classified food safety and quality standards as European Union
legislation, Codex Alimentarius standards, private standards and national legislation. To
report food safety, every organization in the global food SC desires to implement a FSMS,
and each FSMS is organizational specific since it is a result of the implementation of various
legal requirements and quality assurance into a company ’s unique environment and
production (Kirezieva et al., 2015).
Luo et al. (2018) identified driving forces and barriers to the supply chain relationship in
the SME food sector. The driving forces include food safety scandals, changing consumer
demand and SC risks. Also, barriers consist of coordination difficulties due to the number of
connecting entities, incomplete information sharing, malfunctions originating from diverse
strategic planning practices, lack of trust among stakeholders, different entrepreneurial
mentalities and failure to understand opportunities in the SME food sectors. Our result
reveals that a case study or empirical methodology is the most commonly used solution
methodology, followed by qualitative methods, whereas quantitative models need further
attention. Dairy and fruits and vegetables sectors have received much attention, whereas
other food sectors are not much addressed in this cluster.
3.3.3 Cluster 3: GHG emission impact of the farm food system . The agricultural
production has developed significantly over the recent decades, resulting in the increased use
of fertilisers and mechanization that lead to the environmental consequences (Tasca et al. ,
2017). To assess the environmental impacts of food systems, various metrics have been
established that include the quantification of GHG emissions and water usage of food items,
assessment of water footprint and food production systems through LCA (Green et al., 2018).
Here, we classified the food emission according to GHG emission and water footprints. GHGs
can be explained with different types of emissions including carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane
(CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) (Vida et al., 2017; Christie et al., 2011). The food products in the
supply chain produce GHG emission from the farm-to-fork through manufacturing,
distribution and even retailing (Dorward, 2012). Water pollution and consumption at a global
scale are recognized as the key resource use issues. Agricultural production is the foremost
water user, and the major water footprint approaches applied to agricultural commodities are
the water footprint network method and LCA method (Zonderland-Thomassen et al., 2012).
The water footprint is characterized by green, blue and grey water along the whole life cycle of
a product (Payen et al., 2018). The green water footprint is the volume of water evaporated
from the root zone of the soil, and it is particularly relevant for forestry, horticultural and
agricultural products. The blue water footprint is the volume of freshwater that evaporated
from surface or groundwater resources to produce goods and services. Domestic water use,
irrigated agriculture and industry can each have a blue water footprint. Grey water footprint is
the amount of freshwater required to dilute a load of pollutants to meet the specific water
quality standards.
Our result indicates that 90 per cent of the research is on GHG emission studies and the
water footprint issues need further attention. The conceptual methodologies have been
widely used, whereas the empirical models and quantitative techniques investigating
emission from the food products and its impact are limited and need further attention.
Besides, our result indicates that the dairy sector is the most addressed food sector in this
research theme, whereas research on fruits and vegetables, meat and poultry and seafood
sector is limited.
39
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026

[Page 22]
3.3.4 Cluster 4: traceability and product quality in the food supply chain . Olsen and Borit
(2013) defined traceability as the ability to access information related to things that are to be
considered throughout their whole life cycle using recorded identification. The term
“Traceability” includes both “tracing” and “tracking” (Dandage et al. , 2017). Tracing is a
reverse process in which origin is identified in the supply chain, and tracking is a forward
process where the end users are identified by the location in the supply chain.
The articles in this cluster are divided into three main sub-themes such as quality and
safety, sustainability and cost-related issue. Traceability is recognized as a mechanism for
quality and safety (Manzini et al., 2013), improving sustainability (Giagnocavo et al., 2017;
Mattevi and Jones, 2016a) and reducing the overall cost (Dandage et al. , 2017) of the food
product since it reduces the recall ’s probability. Dabbene et al. (2014) identified many issues
related to traceability of bulk products, fraud prevention, quality and identity preservation
concerns and food crisis management. For the past few years, many developed and
developing countries, for instance, Austria, Germany, the UK, etc., have made it mandatory
to implement food traceability systems (Riviere and Buckley, 2012). However, it is
surprising that India, the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables in the world
(Saxena and Gandhi, 2014), does not have any required traceability system (Schroeder and
Tonsor, 2012).
In recent years, an increasing effort in the implementation of traceability systems can be
seen, mainly as a result of a growing concern with food quality and safety issues (Saltini
et al. , 2013). An optimized and sustainable supply chain necessarily requires taking into
account the traceability (Germani et al. , 2015). To overcome the food quality and safety
issues, it is necessary to develop a trusted food traceability system, which can track and
monitor the complete lifespan of food production (Lin et al. , 2018). Of late, McDonald
restaurants presented the food traceability system to monitor the item sources from various
providers of the nation, keeping in mind the end goal to give food security and quality
(Dandage et al. , 2017). For this, a mobile application called TrackMyMacca ’s was created.
Through this application, the global positioning system (GPS) provides the location of the
restaurant, the tracking image on the McDonald ’s packaging is recognized by the software,
and combining these data along with date and time, the application accesses McDonald ’s
supply database to get the story of the products. Proper traceability in the food industry is
required due to the precarious nature of the existing supply chain and to reduce the
numerous cases of food safety incidents and fraudulence (Dandage et al., 2017). Improving
sustainability in the SME food sector usually leads to a higher cost. However, by creating
transparency through the traceability, consumers have to be convinced that often higher
prices are involved to improve sustainability (Khan et al., 2018). A smart traceability system
in the SME food sector can be built by the application of modern technologies such as cloud
computing, GPS, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, artificial intelligence (AI), etc., into
traditional agriculture. Lin et al. (2018) conducted a study on the influence of Blockchain and
IoT technologies on the agri-food sector and found that these technologies help to build a
self-organized, open, trusted and ecological smart agriculture system, which includes all
parties in the system, even if they may not trust each other.
From the analysis, it is observed that studies on the impact of traceability on
sustainability and cost of the product need further attention. Developing smart traceability
system in the SME food sector is a ripe research area. From Table X, it is observed that
empirical and quantitative models have received much attention. Our results indicate that
meat and poultry and fruits and vegetables sectors are the most addressed food sector in
this cluster.
3.3.5 Cluster 5: asymmetric price transmission system in the supply chain . This cluster
focussed on the degree to which price changes are transferred along the FSC. Price transmission,
40
JAMR
17,1
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026