--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C40
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 21
Word Range: 10591 - 10840
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 21]
high-information quality can st imulate SC performance through improving the relationship
( Jonsson and Gustavsson, 2008).
The safety issues are further divided into food safety standards and food safety
management system (FSMS). For the growth of the domestic food retail sector and high-
value exports, food safety standard is an essential factor (Unnevehr, 2015; Shukla et al. ,
2018). Jacxsens et al. (2015) classified food safety and quality standards as European Union
legislation, Codex Alimentarius standards, private standards and national legislation. To
report food safety, every organization in the global food SC desires to implement a FSMS,
and each FSMS is organizational specific since it is a result of the implementation of various
legal requirements and quality assurance into a company ’s unique environment and
production (Kirezieva et al., 2015).
Luo et al. (2018) identified driving forces and barriers to the supply chain relationship in
the SME food sector. The driving forces include food safety scandals, changing consumer
demand and SC risks. Also, barriers consist of coordination difficulties due to the number of
connecting entities, incomplete information sharing, malfunctions originating from diverse
strategic planning practices, lack of trust among stakeholders, different entrepreneurial
mentalities and failure to understand opportunities in the SME food sectors. Our result
reveals that a case study or empirical methodology is the most commonly used solution
methodology, followed by qualitative methods, whereas quantitative models need further
attention. Dairy and fruits and vegetables sectors have received much attention, whereas
other food sectors are not much addressed in this cluster.
3.3.3 Cluster 3: GHG emission impact of the farm food system . The agricultural
production has developed significantly over the recent decades, resulting in the increased use
of fertilisers and mechanization that lead to the environmental consequences (Tasca et al. ,
2017). To assess the environmental impacts of food systems, various metrics have been
established that include the quantification of GHG emissions and water usage of food items,
assessment of water footprint and food production systems through LCA (Green et al., 2018).
Here, we classified the food emission according to GHG emission and water footprints. GHGs
can be explained with different types of emissions including carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane
(CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) (Vida et al., 2017; Christie et al., 2011). The food products in the
supply chain produce GHG emission from the farm-to-fork through manufacturing,
distribution and even retailing (Dorward, 2012). Water pollution and consumption at a global
scale are recognized as the key resource use issues. Agricultural production is the foremost
water user, and the major water footprint approaches applied to agricultural commodities are
the water footprint network method and LCA method (Zonderland-Thomassen et al., 2012).
The water footprint is characterized by green, blue and grey water along the whole life cycle of
a product (Payen et al., 2018). The green water footprint is the volume of water evaporated
from the root zone of the soil, and it is particularly relevant for forestry, horticultural and
agricultural products. The blue water footprint is the volume of freshwater that evaporated
from surface or groundwater resources to produce goods and services. Domestic water use,
irrigated agriculture and industry can each have a blue water footprint. Grey water footprint is
the amount of freshwater required to dilute a load of pollutants to meet the specific water
quality standards.
Our result indicates that 90 per cent of the research is on GHG emission studies and the
water footprint issues need further attention. The conceptual methodologies have been
widely used, whereas the empirical models and quantitative techniques investigating
emission from the food products and its impact are limited and need further attention.
Besides, our result indicates that the dairy sector is the most addressed food sector in this
research theme, whereas research on fruits and vegetables, meat and poultry and seafood
sector is limited.
39
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026