--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C45
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 23
Word Range: 11847 - 12096
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 23]
in short, is the process in which upstream prices affect downstream prices. The welfare of
farmers and food consumers is affected by horizontal and vertical price transmission in the FSC
(Pokrivcak et al., 2014). Price transmission from producer prices to consumer prices refers to
vertical price transmission, whereas horizontal price transmission means the interconnection
among different markets at the same positionin a supply chain. The main causes of asymmetric
price transmission, as narrated in the literature, are existence of adjustment and menu costs that
occur due to the re-pricing and the acquisition of an advanced pricing strategy (Meyer and
Cramon-Taubadel, 2004), market power (Daiet al., 2017; Aysoy et al.,2 0 1 5 ;B a k u c set al., 2014)
a n dm i s c e l l a n e o u sc a u s e ss u c ha sa s y m m e t r i ci n formation, inventory management and political
intervention (Meyer and Cramon-Taubadel, 2004), etc. Adjustment cost occurs when there is a
change in a new pricing strategy or re-pricing,and APT arise if these costs are asymmetric with
respect to increases or decreases in prices (Simioniet al., 2013). APT is mainly related to market
distortion like market power of retailers or processors (Pokrivcaket al.,2 0 1 4 ) .G e n e r a l l y ,f o o d
industries are oligopolistic in nature (Bakucset al., 2014), and the price transmission is influenced
more by the market power in downstream sectors by decreasing the purchasing prices in the
upstream sectors.
Domestic producer prices are associated with the law of one price to world prices,
whereas the consumer prices depend on both producer prices as well as the efficiency of
price transmission (Liu et al., 2018). In agricultural and food markets, a hike in the producer
prices is transferred more rapidly to consumer prices than a producer price decline, which is
passed through the FSC to consumer prices more slowly and incompletely. Empirical
studies illustrate that APT is the rule rather than the exception (Rezitis and Pachis, 2018).
Our results found that empirical modelling is widely used in this cluster.
3.4 Research implications
The food industry represents one of the largest manufacturing sectors in the global
economy. FSC has been coined to depict the activities or operations from production,
distribution, and consumption so as to keep the safety and quality of various food products
under efficient and effective modes (Blandon et al. , 2009b). A major portion of the food
processing and distribution industries participating in the FSC comprises of SMEs.
Implementing SCM practices to improve the operations in food SMEs is not as easy as in
bigger counterparts, as there may be lots of complexities and difficulties in analysing the
operational objectives (Nabhani and Shokri, 2009). Indeed, both academics and practitioners
pay increasing attention towards the supply chain issues in food SMEs. Despite this
growing attention, the extant literature has yet to provide any evidence of a systematic
review of supply chain issues in SME food sector. To address this research gap, we present
an SLR of supply chain issues in SME food sector on the basis of BC and co-word analysis.
The findings of this research exhibit the following implications for research, practice, and
society. The policy makers could use the findings for developing strategies for the
betterment of SMEs in the FSC, which will provide huge employment opportunities and
ensure regional balance by taking industrialization to rural and backward areas.
Our review contributes to the body of FSC literature by reporting the major supply chain
issues/themes, the current research trends and the different modelling approaches used in
the SME food industry. We have identified five major themes, of which two themes, namely,
GHG emission impact of the farm food system and traceability and product quality in the
FSC, have received increasing attention in recent years. Our findings support the recent
study (Mattevi and Jones, 2016a) that suggests managers should see “being traceable” as a
strategic objective as it is “being green”, and it further reports that traceability could follow
the sustainability development path, due to consumer pressure on traceability. Food
traceability is one of the main factors in the evaluation of quality assurance systems in the
41
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026