--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-109-C34
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-109
Page Range: Page 17
Word Range: 9001 - 9259
Word Count: 259
--------------------

[Page 17]
qualified source) and review works, as shown in Table X. From Table X, it is evident
that case study/empirical modelling, followe d by conceptual or qualitative techniques, are
the most commonly used solution methodol ogy to address supply chain issues in SME
food sectors.
The different research approaches and various data analysis methods are shown in
Figures 8 and 9, respectively. The most popular solution methodology used is the case
study/empirical method (41.22 per cent), followed by conceptual/qualitative (36.4 per cent),
literature review (15.3 per cent) and quantitative methods (7 per cent), respectively. Also, it is
identified that a survey is the most commonly used empirical method. Data analysis
methods, for instance, theoretical description, life cycle assessment (LCA), simulation,
structural equation model, factor analysis, etc., have been extensively used. The most
popular data analysis approach is found as the theoretical description, followed by a survey
method. Our results agreed with the findings of Prakash (2018).
The distribution of research papers on the b asis of food sectors is shown in Figure 10.
Following the previous literature, we identified five major SME food sectors, which are
classified as dairy, fruits and vegetable s, meat and poultry, seafood and grains and
oilseed. The dairy sector is the most addressed (36 per cent), followed by fruits and
vegetables (27 per cent), meat and poultry (18 per cent), seafood (10 per cent) and grains
and oilseed (8 per cent). It is also identified t hat the dairy sector has received significant
attention in “GHG Emission impact of farm food system ” and “Relationship, safety, and
standards in food supply chain ” themes. Fruits and vegetables have received significant
attention in all the identified themes. Me at and poultry sectors have received much
attention in traceability and product quality in the FSC and “Relationship, safety and
standards in food supply chain ” themes. Sea foods and grain and oil seeds sectors
have received limited attention among the i dentified themes. It is observed that the
dairy sector, followed by fruits and vegetables and meat and poultry, have received
much attention in the academic literature, wh ereas seafood and grains and oilseed need
further research.
2002–2014
Alternative
Food Network
(Cluster 2)
Recomposition
Production and
distribution in
AFN (Cluster 1)
GHG Emission impact
of farm food system
(Cluster 3) 
Relationship, safety and
standards in food supply
chain (Cluster 2) 
Traceability and product
quality in food supply
chain (Cluster 4) 
Price transmission in the
food supply chain
(Cluster 5) 
Recomposition
Recomposition
Differentiation
Land use and
Emission impact of
livestock systems
(Cluster 4)
Supply chain
relationship in
food industry
(Cluster 3)
Market economics
of contract farming
in SME food supply
chain (Cluster 1)
2002–2018
Figure 7.
Development pattern
of SC issues in SME
food sector
35
Supply chain
issues in SME
food sector
Downloaded from http://www.emerald.com/jamr/article-pdf/17/1/19/1312136/jamr-02-2019-0010.pdf by Indian Institute of Technology at Madras user on 17 June 2026