--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C63
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 38
Word Range: 17475 - 17839
Word Count: 365
--------------------

[Page 38]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
38 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs.  An integrated 
global economy as envisaged in this goal is associated with the 
rise of global value chains (GVCs) . GVCs  and the digital 
transformation offer new opportunities for MSMEs to integrate 
into the global economy. Greater flexibility and the capacity to 
customize and differentiate products can give MSMEs a 
competitive advantage in global markets, as they are able to 
respond rapidly to changing market conditions and to test with 
shorter product life cycles. Some niche international markets 
are dominated by MSMEs, and innovative small enterprises 
are often key partners of larger multinationals in developing 
new products or serving new markets. For example, in 
Germany, small - and mid -size companies hold between 70  
percent and 90  percent of global market share in some 
specialized manufacturing segments and account for the bulk of  the German international trade surplus. 189 
However, MSME constraints in internationalising include access to information, skills, technology, finance, trade 
facilitation, and connectivity. Evidence shows that MSMEs are lagging behind in adopting digital technologies.190 
While in most countries, the divide is narrow for simple co nnectivity and web presence, the gap broadens when 
considering participation in e -commerce and, especially, more sophisticated applications. In many countries, a 
large adoption gap is also observed for cloud computing , for instance  the renting of computer power from an 
external provider, which can allow smaller firms to use big data, while overcoming some of the barriers 
associated with the high fixed costs of ICT investmen t.191 MSMEs are also disproportionately affected by trade 
facilitation/administrative costs, business taxes and compliance in export destinations compared to larger firms. 
Limited access to credit faced by MSMEs and start -ups further exacerbate the disadvantages of MSMEs to 
integrate in GVCs.192  Responding to these challenges, MSMEs will help achieve the broader vision envisaged in 
international cooperation on trade and investment under this goal.  
Business examples supporting the delivery of  SDG 17 
 
Bluetown.193 This Danish company founded in 2012 with 60 employees has developed a wi -fi solution that runs entirely 
on solar energy. In addition to internet access, wi -fi hotspots allow access to a local cloud so local authorities, private 
companies, and NGOs can post free learning material to the communities. The provision of internet promotes e-health, e-
commerce and e -learning in regions where Bluetown has projects. Bluetown was a participant of the UNDP SDG 
Accelerator programme and was the joint winner of the USA ID WomenConnect Challenge, which provides finance for 
projects that break down the digital gender divide. 
Ushahidi.194 The ‘data revolution’ required for SDGs opens opportunities for MSMEs in data analytics. One such example 
is the social enterprise Ushahidi  which applies data collection as part of its business model.  Ushahidi develops and 
supports information technology tools that promote transparency and accountability , employing data pulled from user -
submitted reports. It was originally established as a K enya-based website that tracked information about the scope and 
locations of post-election violence in 2007 and 2008. Since then, it has developed a technical platform for collating and 
mapping many types of information submitted by the public. This tool has been used to coordinate information-sharing for 
disaster response and crisis management in Haiti and Sao Paulo, among other locations. The UN’s Office for the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has worked with Ushahidi to support crisis mapping in con flict, including during the 
2011 Libyan crisis.