--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C23
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 16
Word Range: 6460 - 6736
Word Count: 277
--------------------

[Page 16]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
16 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. A report by the 
World Bank in 2014 identified a potential US $1.2 trillion market for MSMEs in the developing world in the area 
of “clean technology” for the decade ending in 2023. 64 The greatest opportunities identified were in waste 
management, small hydro, water treatment and renewable energy. MSMEs are considered to be particularly well-
placed to operate in this sector as they are already engaged in areas such as construction, installati on, 
operations and maintenance  and the connection that MSMEs have to local markets. The study reports that in 
the UK, up to 90 percent of clean technology businesses are MSMEs, and this could be repl icated in the 
developing world. Safe disposal of waste is a huge challenge in many countries. The Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation has funded innovators of various new, l ow-cost sanitation tech nologies. MSMEs can contribute to 
the commercialization of such technology that is expected to have a global market valued at $6 billion by 2030.65 
MSMEs and start-ups need to be supported with market-based and technology-based solutions through capacity 
building, access to finance and expertise which in turn will contribute to the progress of this goal.  
   
 Startups with water and sanitation solutions  
 
cewas Start-Up Programme Switzerland was initiated in 2011 and targets young entrepreneurs.66 The programme consists 
of sector-relevant lectures providing the knowledge that allows participants to develop an idea, create a strong business 
model, pitch the idea to the water sector at the International Water Week in Stockholm, develop the idea and manage the 
business model. Expert coaches provide one -on-one coaching such as technical or business advice, introduce the start -
ups into their network and assist with funding options. The programme lasts for one year and as of 2018, 54 start -ups 
and MSMEs have participated. Participants include: 
Eco Solutions Forge (ESF)  was founded in 2014 as a result of participating in the cewas Start -Up Programme. ESF aims 
to change the current situation in the Ukrainian Carpathians with regards to wastewater treatment, and to offer 
sustainable sanitation solutions for the tourist industry in the region. Its main activities are consulting and teaching on 
water and sanitation issues, as well as designing and building wastewater treatment systems. Additional activities include 
designing and building public dry toilets and rainwater harvesting systems. Lately, the main focus has been on researching 
and building high-performance cold climate insulated vermifilters with biochar substrate. 
SOIL is a non-profit research and development organization focusing on sustainable provision of household sanitation and 
ecological waste treatment in Haiti. For a small monthly fee, SOIL’s social business, EkoLakay, provides over 1,000 
households with container -based sanitation (CBS) toilets a nd safely transforms all collected waste into compost. The 
revenue from toilet user fees and compost sales support ongoing project costs. SOIL’s model is one of just three household 
CBS services globally.