--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C54
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 33
Word Range: 14991 - 15287
Word Count: 297
--------------------

[Page 33]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
33 
Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt 
and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 
  
This goal has 12 targets. They focus on sustainable management of inland freshwater 
ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, 
address deforestation, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, ensure 
conservation of mountain ecosystems including their biodiversity, and promote equitable 
sharing of the benefits arising from th e utilization of genetic resources. The targets call for 
an end to poaching and trafficking of protected species, promote protection against invasive 
species, promote ecosystem-based planning and global cooperation on conservation, and promote land -based 
ecosystems. 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 15? 
 
Agribusinesses and smallholder farmers have a critical role to play in conserving land-based ecosystems. Today’s 
dominant industrial food system is rapidly depleting and degrading the world’s soil, water and biod iversity. 
Environmental damages caused by industrial and agriculture activities cost the world US $3 trillion each year , 
according to the United Nations . Small -scale food producers make up 90 percent of farmers worldwide. 166 
Adoption of agro-ecological methods through capacity building of small -scale producers can foster biodiversity, 
natural soil fertility, water conservation and biological control of insects and shift food production to a sustainable 
path.167 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Measure, manage, and mitigate impacts on ecosystems and natural resources. 168 
▪ Scale up best practices for land-use planning and management.169 
▪ Commit to and implement responsible sourcing practices beyond compliance, applying 
environmental and social safeguards for all raw materials and commodities.  
New business solutions and opportunities for MSMEs. The 
Business & Sustainable Development Commission estimates 
forest ecosystem services have a potential value of US $140-365 
billion a year by 2030. Deforestation and forest degradation 
account for 17 percent of global emissions  -more than 
transport. 170  Just f our commodities, beef, soy, palm oil and 
paper/pulp, are responsible for driving half of all deforestation.171 
It is expected that  a carbon pr ice of US $50 per tonne by 2030 
will open up major new opportunities in sustainable forest 
services, such as climate change mitigation, watershed services 
and biodiversity conservation, if mechani sms to pay for them develop too.  One hundred and fourteen 
governments have made commitments to ecological restoration as part of their overall plans to tackle a changing 
climate, pledging to restore 16 2 million hectares of land . 172  More and more enterprises are seeing the 
commercial potential in sectors related to ecological restoration, including those whose main value proposition 
is linked to forest and landscape restoration. This may be a direct link, enterprises that plant trees, for example, 
or an indirect one, such as companies that offer technology or consulting services for restoration. A restoration 
enterprise can also include companies whose revenues are not directly linked to restoration, but whose 
customers are drawn to them because they channel th eir profits toward restoration. Existing MSMEs and start-