--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C20
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 15
Word Range: 5693 - 5942
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 15]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
15 
Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water 
and sanitation for all  
 
This goal has eight targets. They focus on ensuring universal and equitable access to safe 
water and safe sanitation, improving water quality, achieving water efficiency in sectors, 
protecting water-based ecosystems, promoting integrated water resource management, 
and increasing international cooperation to transfer knowledge, capacity building and 
technology to address water and sanitation and to promote local level management of 
water and sanitation activities.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 6? 
 
MSMEs deliver water and sanitation services. The World Bank estimates an annual 
need of $114 billion between now and 2030, three times the current investment 
levels, if we are to achieve the targets related to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) 
of SDG 6.57 MSMEs fill the gap in many developing countries where the public sector 
fails to reach communities, particularly low -income families. In Asia, Africa and Latin 
America, M SMEs, either through  their own funds or loans and some equity, are 
delivering water and creating sanitation infrastructure in the rural -remote or dense -
urban areas. These MSMEs provide, in various innovative ways, safe water in cans or 
affordable water filtration systems; similarly , they provide household latrines with 
onsite waste treatment or transportation and treatment/recycling of  the waste . In 
Ghana, as in many other low - to middle -income countries, micro -enterprises are 
common in sanitation service delivery , which include the storage, collection and 
transport sections of the sanitation value chain.58 MSMEs in the water and sanitation 
sector, however, face difficulties in viability due to limitations in demand, lack of 
business and technical skills , and financial challenges such  as access to credit. 59 Capacity building of MSMEs 
in the sector can contribute to the goal. 
 
Agricultural and food supply chain MSMEs can conserve water . The agriculture sector is by far the largest user 
of freshwater, accounting for nearly 70 percent of global water withdrawals.60 Saving just a fraction of this would 
significantly alleviate water stress in other sectors, particularly in arid countries where agriculture can consume 
as much as 90 percent of available water resources. 61 MSMEs active in the agri cultural value chain can 
contribute to water savings by increasing productivity of food crops, improving water management practices and 
technologies, implementing sustainable agricultural practices, and growing fewer water-intensive crops. Capacity 
building and awareness-raising for agri-businesses and farmers is key to changing these practices. 
  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Ensure that the workplace has appropriate WA SH facilities and advocate for WASH amongst 
employees. 
▪ Prioritize water efficiency by installing best-practice technologies for water conservation. 
▪ Educate employees about the importance of water efficiency. 62 
▪ Prohibit the use of chemicals and materials that can be particularly detrimental to water quality if 
improperly disposed.63