--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 24 to Page 26
Word Range: 9514 - 10998
Word Count: 1,485
--------------------

[Page 24]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
24 
▪ Provide social protection mechanisms to employees, including the payment for life, accident and 
unemployment insurance, contributing to social security of employees and ensuring paid leave in 
accordance with legal requirements. 
▪ Organize skills training and career coaching opportunities for employees from marginalized and 
vulnerable population groups.  
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. Small businesses 
can represent an effective tool to address societal needs through the market. Social enterprises bring innovative 
solutions to the problems of poverty and fill gaps in service delivery. In many countries, social enterprises are an 
increasing phenomenon, part icularly in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. For instance, in France, in 
2014, social enterprises contributed to 10 percent of the GDP. 111 In Belgium, over 2008 -14, employment in 
social enterprises increased by 12 percent and accounted, in 2015,  for 17 percent of total private 
employment.112 In the UK, in 2015, 41 percent of social enterprises had created jobs compared to 22 percent 
of MSMEs.113 Companies pursuing social impact as a part of their core business strategies are seeing increased 
access t o financing in a diversity of forms: philanthropic grants and impact investments, partial credit 
guarantees, and payment for performance. The socially-responsible investing industry exceeded US $6 trillion in 
the United States alone in 2014 and stands at U S $21.4 trillion globally. 114 MSMEs should be connected to 
these facilities to boost social enterprises and socially-responsible business operations.  
 
MSMEs accelerating inclusivity   
 
Dignity kitchen115 is a social enterprise that runs Singapore's first and only community food court. It is operated by people 
with disabilities and the socially disadvantaged. The business provides educational and employment opportunities in the 
food services industry to vu lnerable people of all walks of life, including those with physical, intellectual and mental 
disabilities, ex-offenders, at-risk youth, victims of domestic violence, cancer and stroke survivors. Dignity Kitchen offers 
bespoke cashier training to the hearing- and visually-impaired – the cashier machines have Braille markings and stickers 
attached to them and provides height-adjustable countertops to create a more enabling work environment for wheelchair-
bound ‘hawkerpreneurs’.  
MicroEnsure 116  offers affordable  insurance to previously unreachable groups via a model inspired by the popular 
computer game Angry Birds. The company saw an opportunity in providing health, life and disability insurance cover for 
low-income groups in Asia and Africa. These groups repres ent a US $40 billion market opportunity for insurance 
companies. But as they face extensive risks and can only afford tiny premiums, they tend to get overlooked. For instance, 
in Africa, less than three percent of the population has health insurance. Working with local telecoms companies and big 
insurance providers, MicroEnsure created an Angry Birds model: free, but with paid -for add-ons. It provides free basic 
insurance in exchange for improved consumer loyalty to local telecoms companies, with the option  for consumers to buy 
more extensive coverage once they understand the value of being insured. In effect, MicroEnsure extended its market by 
finding ways to bring affordable insurance to previously unreachable groups.

[Page 25]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
25 
Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient 
and sustainable  
 
This goal has 10 targets. They focus on providing adequate housing, transport facilities, 
waste management, urban settlement planning, and reducing losses from disasters in 
urban areas. The targets promote sustainable and resilient urban standards, policies and 
planning.  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 11? 
 
MSMEs provide employment and economic growth in cities. MSMEs in professional services, digital and the 
creative industries (referred to as  ‘new work’) 117 
are becoming increasingly important – both in 
terms of employment and in terms of output for 
cities. Employment in the UK in these ‘new work’ 
industries increased at over four times the 
average between 2009 and 2013.118 Output from 
the digital sector increased more than seven -fold 
between 1990 and 2013 and by 286 percent in 
the professional services and 196 percent in the 
creative sector.119 These firms are overwhelmingly 
city-based. Nearly 60 percent of these MSMEs are 
based in cit ies and on average  in the UK , 40 
percent of MSMEs in cities are ‘new work’ MSMEs, 
compared to 34 percent in non -urban locations. 120 Fostering innovation and MSMEs is therefore key to the 
inclusive growth of cities and in creating employment for urban dwellers, including marginalized groups such as 
migrants from poor rural areas, young people and women.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal . They 
can jointly develop and/or participate in a sustainable community that brings together relevant stakeholders 
through a common and neutral platform to analyse, discuss, and act on urban functionality, resilience, and 
sustainable development;121 and support and utilize public transportation services.122 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs.  The report of the Business & 
Sustainable Development Commission estimates that addressing challenges in cities in line with the SDGs have 
a potential value in 2030 of US $3.7 trillion in current prices.123 They include business opportunities in a range 
of areas such as affordable housing, road safety equipment, office sharing, municipal water leakage, public 
transport in urban areas, electric a nd hybrid vehicles, vehicle fuel efficiency, durable and modular buildings, 
smart metering, energy efficiency in buildings, autonomous vehicles, timber buildings, cultural tourism and car 
sharing. The housing sector in cities alone is valued at US $650 -1,080 billion, while energy -efficient buildings 
are valued at US $555-770 billion, which includes retrofitting existing buildings with more efficient heating and 
cooling technology and switching to efficient lighting and other electrical appliances. 124 Electric and hybrid 
vehicles are valued at US $310-320 billion.125 Assuming an average life of 15 years, the total global passenger 
vehicle fleet will turn over completely by 2030, presenting an opportunity for a huge increase in sales of electric 
vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. MSMEs can help deliver many of these new products and services. 
Fostering start-ups and existing MSMEs to take up these opportunities is key to the implementation of the goal.

[Page 26]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
26 
MSMEs solving urban challenges    
 
Mobility. Bla Bla Car is a company which has scaled ride sharing between cities across Europe, allowing 1 million tons of 
CO2 emissions to be avoided in just two years. 126 Its website and mobile app connect drivers and passengers willing to 
travel together between cities and share the cost of the journey. The platform has 70 million users in 2019 and is available 
in 22 countries. Other similar start -ups are: Bynd, which off ers commuting car sharing in traffic -bound Sao Paolo, and 
Flattire, a bike-fixing platform from bike-friendly Amsterdam.127 
Housing. ¡Échale! a tu Casa is a social enterprise based in Mexico that co -designs homes with low income families and 
sets up housing committees.128 It sees building communities as a part of the housing solution. It also buys over 60 percent 
of building materials locally and provides employment to local construction workers. Under iÉchale!’s assisted self-building 
programme, participants receive the materials and technical training necessary to build a small house in a month, with 
supervision from a certified architect. The resulting homes, made from ¡Échale!’s patented compressed earth blocks, are 
designed for minimal energy and water use,  making them eco -friendly as well as cheap to run. Green features include 
solar water heaters, wood saving stoves and systems to harvest rainwater. ¡Échale! is exporting its technology to Belize, 
Egypt, Haiti, Nicaragua and the UAE, and is developing a soc ial franchise model to allow others to replicate its success. 
Already, 30,000 houses have been built and over 150,000 homes improved in Mexico alone using its model. PopUp Immo 
is a start up in Hong Kong that offers a marketplace dedicated to short-term commercial real estate rental.129 The company 
aims at making rentals of short-term commercial spaces as easy as making bookings on Airbnb. The platform provides a 
flexible and global platform for brands looking for spaces to renew their customers’ experiences. Property owners reduce 
their vacancy rates and increase their rental yields. 
Waste management. Daily Dump is dedicated to empowering households, individuals and urban communities across India 
to convert their organic waste to high quality compost.130 Indian cities generate 120,000 tonnes of waste a day and over 
50 percent is wet/organic waste. Municipalities face huge challenges in handling this waste. Daily Dump started in 2006 
with a core team of 3 members and 2 support members and potters who made prototy pes. They designed a range of 
composting solutions, which are operated conveniently and hygienically at household level and are increasingly being used 
by offices. It has prevented 4400 kg of waste from reaching land dumps. Once the organic waste productio n reaches a 
certain volume, they are transported to villages to support organic farming.