--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C34
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 23
Word Range: 9594 - 9843
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 23]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
23 
Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries 
 
This goal has 10 targets, which primarily focus on increasing incomes for low income earning 
groups, ending discrimination, promoting social, economic and political inclusion, promoting 
better wage and social protection policies, facilitating safe migration and reducing remittance 
fees, monitoring regulation of global financial markets, and increasing the voice of and 
assistance to least developed countries (LDCs).  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 10? 
 
MSMEs promote economic inclusion and have the potential to regenerate under-served geographic areas. Small 
businesses serve geographic locations, populations and markets that do not have enough scale to attract larger 
firms. Research has shown that  smaller businesses tend to spend more of the money they make from a local 
area w ithin that area , demonstrating their 
potential to regenerate economically 
disadvantaged localities. A research found that 
in the UK,  for every £1 a local authority spent 
with an MSME, 63p was re -spent in the local 
area compared to 40p for every £1 spent with a 
large business.108 
MSMEs provide incomes to low income and 
marginalized groups. MSMEs tend to be labour -
intensive; they employ many segments of the 
population, including low -skilled and less -
educated people, as well as rural and urban poor 
(see Goal 1). MSMEs also offer employment and 
entrepreneurship opportunities for young 
people, women and other disadvantaged 
groups, including migrants, ethnic minorities and the disabled. MSMEs are  therefore crucial in increasing 
incomes for the bottom 40 percent of the world’s population.  
Increasing productivity of MSMEs can help bridge wage inequality.  OECD work on productivity shows that, in 
some countries, the gap in productivity between MSMEs and large firms increased in the aftermath of the 2007-
08 global crisis.109 While for small and medium-sized enterprises there has been a reversal in this trend during 
the recovery, the larger gap has become persistent for micro -firms. This gap is also an important dr iver of the 
observed rise in inequality, including wage inequality, in many countries. 110 In many emerging and developing 
economies, the productivity gap between bigger firms and MSMEs and the resulting income gaps are especially 
large, due in particular to a disproportionate concentration of employment in micro and small firms, often 
informal ones. Investing in MSME development and increasing their competitiveness and productivity is key to 
reducing wage inequalities.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Adopt equal remuneration policies for men and women employees of the same competency. 
Ensure compliance with the minimum wage policies and exclude preferences based on gender, 
race, religion and other discriminatory grounds.