--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C56
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 35
Word Range: 15640 - 15889
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 35]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
35 
Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels  
 
This goal has 12 targets. The goal focuses on reducing all forms of violence, ending 
exploitation, trafficking and violence against and torture of children. The targets promote rule 
of law, calls for reducing illicit financial and arms flows, reducing corruption, promoting 
transparency of institutions, promoting participatory decision making and access to 
information, ensuring legal identity through birth registration, promoting international 
cooperation, and non-discriminatory laws and policies.  
 
Can MSMEs help to achieve Goal 16? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for promoting good governance principles. Adopting ethical business practices and 
standards and promoting integration of these standards within value chains of MSMEs can be beneficial for their 
growth and profitability. For example, clean business without having to make illegal payments can lower the cost 
of production or operation. Maintaining strong business ethics and integrity can help strengthen customer 
relationships, improve reputation and win more business. Businesses no longe r view adoption of good 
governance standards as compliance but also internalize these approaches as part of business risk 
management strategies. 176 MSMEs which often take up a large share of the business community have the 
potential for adopting governance p rinciples if they are provided with the necessary support and resources. 
Support should also extend to informal enterprises to become formalized.  
MSMEs have a role in conflict/violence prevention. MSMEs provide incomes to poor families, women and youth 
through employment and entrepreneurship  opportunities. Supporting women and youth -led enterprises is 
therefore considered an effective strategy for violence prevention as incomes from entrepreneurship can 
motivate yo ung people not to take up arms or to participate in crime. Supporting youth and women -led 
businesses, particularly those who are marginalized, can contribute to a more inclusive society which in turn 
promotes peace. The SDG Fund demonstrates several such initiatives that support farmer’s groups in Colombia 
following the long-term conflict, support women’s cooperatives in the Occupied Territory of Palestine and target 
unemployed ex -combatants with youth entrepreneurship development in Sierra Leone. 177  These MSME 
promotion strategies were mainl y targeted to prevent violence and promote peace as part of post -conflict 
recovery.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.   
They can: 
▪ Comply with laws and seek to meet international standards; requiring and supporting business 
partners to do the same.178  
▪ Conduct risks assessment to examine and monitor external patterns that could affect business 
operations. 
▪ Support organization or participation of employees to training programmes on prevent ion of 
violence; incorporate violence prevention measures in enterprise management regulations.