--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C31
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 21
Word Range: 8828 - 9093
Word Count: 266
--------------------

[Page 21]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
21 
Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 
 
This goal has 9 targets, which primarily cover three areas, including provision of resilient 
infrastructure, industrialisation including development of small -scale industrial enterprises, 
and promotion of research and innovation.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 9? 
 
Small-scale industrial enterprises are directly relevant to the goal. SDG Target 9.3 focuses on increasing the role 
and capacity of small -scale industrial enterprises. 97 UNIDO reports that data on this target is limited from 
countries. Available data shows that the manufacturing value added of small -scale enterprises reveals high 
variability across developing countries. While Albania reported that 21 percent of manufacturing was produced 
by small -scale industries, the share was 
negligible in Ecuador at 0.4 percent. 98 
However the report notes that despite the 
small contribution to total industrial output, the 
role of small -scale enterprises in job creation, 
especially in developing countries, is 
significant in terms of their high ab sorption of 
labour from traditional sectors, such as 
agriculture or fishery. In OECD countries, 
MSMEs account for about 60  percent of jobs 
in the manufacturing sector and 75 percent in 
services, generating between 50  percent and 
60 percent of value added, on average.99  
MSME finance for small scale industrial 
enterprises will contribute to the goal. Although 
small-scale enterprises have a key role in 
industrial development in developing 
countries, one of the biggest challenges they 
face is access to financia l services. Financial access is crucial for small -scale industries to grow as it allows 
entrepreneurs to innovate, improve efficiency, expand to new markets and create new job opportunities.  The 
World Bank Enterprise Surveys for the period 2015 to 2017 rep orted that the highest shares of small -scale 
industries with a loan or line of credit in manufacturing are found in the Solomon Islands (64 percent), Nicaragua 
(59 percent) and Benin (52 percent).100 By contrast, some countries such as Laos (6.7 percent), Zimbabwe (5.7 
percent) and Egypt (4.3 percent) had very low shares. 101  
MSMEs promote innovation. While not all MSMEs are innovative, new and small firms are often the driving force 
behind the  innovations that are important for economic growth, since they can work outside of  dominant 
paradigms, exploit technological or commercial opportunities that have been neglected by more  established 
companies or enable the commercialisation of knowledge that would otherwis e remain uncommercialised .102 
For instance,  MSMEs account for about 20  percent of patents, which is one measure of innovation, in 
biotechnology-related fields in  Europe. 103 MSMEs also contribute to value creation by adopting innovation 
generated elsewhere, and adapting it to different contexts through incremental changes, and by distributing new 
or niche products. However, a key challenge for many MSMEs is to identify and connect to appropriate knowledge 
partners and networks at the local, national and global levels, and develop appropriate skills and management