--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C42
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 27
Word Range: 11666 - 11915
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 27]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
27 
Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
 
This goal has 11 targets. It includes targets to substantially reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction and recycling by 2030, promotes sustainable management of 
natural resources, sustainable lifestyles and consumption behaviours, sustainable business 
practices and sustainability reporting for businesses. The goal calls for int egrating 
sustainability to public procurement and promotes international cooperation on research 
and development that facilitate sustainable consumption and production.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 12? 
 
MSMEs as a group have significant cumulative social and environmental impacts. MSMEs form the backbone of 
national economies and the global supply chains of large companies. Individually, MSMEs have relatively small 
environmental and social impacts, but as a group, the impacts are much larger. MSMEs comprise a major share 
of total private sector entities in both 
developed and developing countries ; in  
developing countries such as Peru, 98 percent 
of private enterprises are MSMEs.131 Reducing 
the environmental impact of MSMEs is core to 
the successful performance of this goal. This is 
particularly urgent for MSMEs in the 
manufacturing sector, which accounts for a 
large part of the world’s consumption of 
resources, air and water po llution and 
generation of waste. 132  In India, there is a 
significant number of MSMEs that belong to 
categories recognized as highly polluting 
industries: chemical and allied industries, 
leather industries, textile processing, drugs 
and pharmaceuticals, agro-chemicals and food 
processing industries.133 MSMEs are unable to comply with environmental standards due to factors such as lack 
of information, lack of access to capital, lack of adaptation of environmental regulations to the social, economic 
and technical reality of local businesses and effective possibilities of cont rol bodies, difficulty in recruiting 
qualified personnel, less awareness about environmental issues, and less environmental pressures from 
stakeholders.134 Building capacity of MSMEs in these areas is therefore key to the achievement of the goal .  
SDG Target  12.7 under this goal promotes public procurement practices that are sustainable . MSMEs are a 
major player in public procurement in many countries - 57 percent of the suppliers to public procurement in 
Brazil are MSMEs, up to 98 percent in Ecuador, and in China up to 76.2 percent of the government procurement 
contracts is granted to MSMEs. 135 Greening public procurement can pose challenges for MSME participation in 
public procurement. Strengthening policies and capacity -building support for MSMEs can help add ress the 
challenges MSMEs face to integrate in green public procurement. 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt sustainable business practices. In general, MSMEs are more  flexible than 
large companies, making them  more likely to adopt sustainable business pract ices. MSMEs have to be 
incentivized to adopt sustainable business practices and to report which can be beneficial for them. MSMEs 
need to be informed that the transition can help businesses to become more competitive, cut costs and optimize 
operations. A 2014 McKinsey study found that 44 percent of sustainable business leaders cite growth and new 
business opportunities as reasons for tackling sustainability challenges. 136 In a review of 200 studies on 
sustainability and corporate performance, Oxford University and Arabesque Partners concluded that 90 percent 
of studies in this area found that high environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards reduced 
companies’ cost of capital, and that 80 percent show a positive correlation between stock price performa nce