--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 36 to Page 38
Word Range: 15197 - 16789
Word Count: 1,593
--------------------

[Page 36]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
36 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs resulting from the 2030 Agenda and SDGs. Supply 
chain policies and programmes offer key 
opportunities for companies to scale up their 
sustainability practices, thus contributing to the 
advancement of the SDGs.179 Traceability is the 
ability to identify and trace the history, 
distribution, location and application of 
products, parts and materials, to ensure  the 
reliability of sustainability claims, in the areas of 
human rights, labour (including health and 
safety), the environment and anti-corruption.180 
Adopting traceability schemes and initiatives 
can lead to an increase in market base and 
appeal, in many cases allowing MSMEs to offset 
costs involved in adopting these schemes by 
charging premium prices for their products and 
services of higher quality.  
 
Business examples and initiatives that promote MSME governance         
Dipantara and the traceability scheme.181 Global traceability organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), 
the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and UTZ Certified, engage with stakeholders along the entire value chain. This 
allows for the development of a credible and robust chain of custody standards and certification for products from the raw 
material to the final use phase. Dipantara, a small community wood trading initiative in the province of Java, Indonesia, 
has developed a group business model aimed at helping smallholder farmers and farmers’ groups in the region sell their 
wood to the international market. Maisons du Monde, a UN Global Compact participant signatory, and The Forest Trust 
(TFT) homeware retail member has supported the Dipantara farmers’ initiative by placing orders for its stores. Dipantara, 
as a non -profit business entity, partners with 96 farmers’ groups across 22 villages totaling 7,966 farmers that have 
registered with the business. By 2012, it had helped 20 of these farmer groups achieve Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certification. The initiative’s efforts help buyers identify the source of wood and trace it back to the tree stump, while at  
the same time increasing revenues for farmers with smallholdings. 
Initiatives promoting MSME governance  
The Basel Institute182 provides anti-corruption collective action, compliance and bribery prevention guidance services to 
MSMEs through the new Business Integrity Consultancy Service, part of the UK government’s Business Integrity Initiative. 
MSMEs that meet the eligibility criteria can submit an application to receive subsidized anti-corruption guidance services 
in three areas – (i) anti-corruption compliance, (ii) corruption and bribery prevention and (iii) anti -corruption Collective 
Action. Depending on their size, companies that receive services will be asked to pay only 20 or 40 percent of the total 
cost of the service.  
The Integrity App183 is an innovative tool to support MSMEs in sustainability compliance.  It was launched by the Allia nce 
for Integrity at the beginning of 2017 and provides a one-stop-shop online platform where companies can track their levels 
of compliance based on a questionnaire developed in line with international standards and receive an immediate status 
report and recommendations on how to improve. Further, the platform is a reliable source of information, provides tools, 
workshops, and webinars and even offers consultations and implementation support.

[Page 37]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
37 
Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the 
global partnership for sustainable development  
 
This goal has 19 targets. It promotes financing of development through domestic resource 
mobilisation, overseas development assistance (ODA), trade and investment promotion and calls 
for addressing debt sustainability, etc. The goal promotes international cooperation on access 
to science, technology and innovation, capacity building, improving policy and institutional 
coherence, data and monitoring of SDGs and encourages multi-sector partnerships.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 17? 
 
MSMEs account for a large share of added value in international trade when indirect linkages are taken into 
account. Overall, MSMEs tend to be under -represented in international trade. Across OECD and non -OECD 
Members, few MSMEs export directly and for those that do, exports typically represent a lower share of trade 
turnover (relati ve to larger firms). 184 However, when considering MSMEs’ indirect contribution to exports, as 
suppliers to larger domestic firms or multinational companies that export, MSMEs in OECD countries can 
represent more than half of total exports  in value added terms .185 The quality and responsiveness of MSMEs 
that supply goods and services to multinational companies that export play a key role in the competitiveness of 
entire supply chains, at both local and global levels. Harnessing this interdependency between MSMEs and larger 
businesses and coordination between the entities can therefore contribute to promotion of trade and competitive 
supply chains.  
MSMEs are a source of partnership to implement SDGs.  Small businesses ad dress societal needs through  
market solutions as demonstrated by social enterprises (see Goal 10). MSMEs also play a role in public -private 
partnerships (PPP) to provide services to address various developmental challenges. They can participate in 
dialogues with governments and communities to find solutions to development problems as they work cl osely 
with communities. They can contribute to society through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices.  
MSMEs are a source of data for SDG monitoring and reporting.  The former Secretary-General of the United 
Nations Ban Ki-moon called for a ‘data revolution’ for the SDGs. This refers to the “integration of new data with 
traditional data to produce high-quality information that is more detailed, timely and relevant for many purposes 
and users, especially to foster and monitor sustainable development”, which encourages governments to engage 
with private-sector actors who generate large amounts of data through their work. 186 MSMEs which are present 
in a range of value chains and employ a large share of the population have potentials for gen erating data that 
can assist in monitoring the SDGs.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal. They 
can take a collaborative initiative and seek  a local charity that the organisation is clos e to and have a 
conversation on how the business can support their work.187 They could also partake in SDG-related partnerships 
like the UN's Make the Global Goals Local campaign, the SDG reporting initiative and locally-based sustainability 
initiatives.188

[Page 38]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
38 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs.  An integrated 
global economy as envisaged in this goal is associated with the 
rise of global value chains (GVCs) . GVCs  and the digital 
transformation offer new opportunities for MSMEs to integrate 
into the global economy. Greater flexibility and the capacity to 
customize and differentiate products can give MSMEs a 
competitive advantage in global markets, as they are able to 
respond rapidly to changing market conditions and to test with 
shorter product life cycles. Some niche international markets 
are dominated by MSMEs, and innovative small enterprises 
are often key partners of larger multinationals in developing 
new products or serving new markets. For example, in 
Germany, small - and mid -size companies hold between 70  
percent and 90  percent of global market share in some 
specialized manufacturing segments and account for the bulk of  the German international trade surplus. 189 
However, MSME constraints in internationalising include access to information, skills, technology, finance, trade 
facilitation, and connectivity. Evidence shows that MSMEs are lagging behind in adopting digital technologies.190 
While in most countries, the divide is narrow for simple co nnectivity and web presence, the gap broadens when 
considering participation in e -commerce and, especially, more sophisticated applications. In many countries, a 
large adoption gap is also observed for cloud computing , for instance  the renting of computer power from an 
external provider, which can allow smaller firms to use big data, while overcoming some of the barriers 
associated with the high fixed costs of ICT investmen t.191 MSMEs are also disproportionately affected by trade 
facilitation/administrative costs, business taxes and compliance in export destinations compared to larger firms. 
Limited access to credit faced by MSMEs and start -ups further exacerbate the disadvantages of MSMEs to 
integrate in GVCs.192  Responding to these challenges, MSMEs will help achieve the broader vision envisaged in 
international cooperation on trade and investment under this goal.  
Business examples supporting the delivery of  SDG 17 
 
Bluetown.193 This Danish company founded in 2012 with 60 employees has developed a wi -fi solution that runs entirely 
on solar energy. In addition to internet access, wi -fi hotspots allow access to a local cloud so local authorities, private 
companies, and NGOs can post free learning material to the communities. The provision of internet promotes e-health, e-
commerce and e -learning in regions where Bluetown has projects. Bluetown was a participant of the UNDP SDG 
Accelerator programme and was the joint winner of the USA ID WomenConnect Challenge, which provides finance for 
projects that break down the digital gender divide. 
Ushahidi.194 The ‘data revolution’ required for SDGs opens opportunities for MSMEs in data analytics. One such example 
is the social enterprise Ushahidi  which applies data collection as part of its business model.  Ushahidi develops and 
supports information technology tools that promote transparency and accountability , employing data pulled from user -
submitted reports. It was originally established as a K enya-based website that tracked information about the scope and 
locations of post-election violence in 2007 and 2008. Since then, it has developed a technical platform for collating and 
mapping many types of information submitted by the public. This tool has been used to coordinate information-sharing for 
disaster response and crisis management in Haiti and Sao Paulo, among other locations. The UN’s Office for the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has worked with Ushahidi to support crisis mapping in con flict, including during the 
2011 Libyan crisis.