--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C18
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 4953 - 5313
Word Count: 361
--------------------

[Page 13]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
13 
Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls  
 
This goal has nine targets. The targets push for ending discrimination based on gender, 
ending violence against women and harmful practices against women and girls, promoting 
participation of women in decision making, improving women’s access to economic 
resources, technology and reproductive health services, and strengthening overall policies 
and laws to promote gender equality.  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 5? 
 
A significant proportion of MSMEs are women -owned/led.  Based on the 
findings from the International Finance Corporation (IFC)’s Enterprise Finance 
Gap Assessment Database, it is estimated that globally there are roughly 9.34 
million formal women -owned MSMEs in over 140 assessed countries, which 
is approximately one third of all formal MSMEs. The findings show  that East 
Asia and the Pacific ha ve the highest overall number, though when weighted 
by the number of women in the region, Europe and Central Asia have the most. 
Based on either measure, South Asia has the least. 43 Formal women-owned 
MSMEs are well engaged in all sectors. They are more likely to have a larger 
presence in the retail and wholesale, and healthcare, beauty, and cosmetics 
sectors. They have close to equal footing in the tourist, transport, hotels and 
restaurants, services, and trade sectors, and a slightly lower presence in the 
manufacturing, agriculture, and construction sectors. 44  However, women -
owned and women-led enterprises face many challenges, most critical being 
limited access to finance. Other barriers include lack of business skills and 
access to networks. Strengthening capacity of women-owned/led MSMEs can 
be a source of economic empowerment for women.  
MSMEs employ women. A study by IFC shows that women constitute a fifth of the total workforce in the MSME 
sector.45 According to data available, the rate of women’s employment in registered MSMEs is 20.45 percent 
and 13.02 percent in unregistered  enterprises. 46 Disaggregated data across MSMEs shows that women’s 
employment, like ownership, is the highest in the case of micro enterprises, followed by small and then medium 
enterprises. 47 However, women are employed mostly in low -skilled jobs and face l ow wages, inappropriate 
working conditions, and an absence of social security, maternity benefits or sexual harassment provisions. 
Improving employment conditions of MSMEs can help to achieve women’s active economic participation to 
achieve the goal.  
Inclusive finance can bridge the gender gap. Financial inclusion can be a particularly powerful driver of gender 
equality. Eighty percent of women-owned businesses with credit needs are either unserved or underserved, a US 
$1.7 trillion financing gap .48 Women entrepreneurs, particularly those from rural poo r communities, are often  
disadvantaged in growing their business es, lacking land deeds and/or collateral needed to access formal 
sources of credit. Evidence shows that women are stronger savers than men,  more responsible borrowers and 
calculated risk -takers.  According to the Bank of New York Mellon, increasing women’s access to financial 
products and services could unlock $330 billion in annual global revenue. 49 Financial institutions, therefore, 
need to be incentivized to cater to women entrepreneurs. A good example is Women’s World Banking Capital 
Partners Fund, which is a private equity limited partnership that makes direct equity investments in women -
focused financial institutions. Their investment str ategy builds on the belief that investors can influence 
institutions to ensure that women clients are part of financial institutions’ growth strategy. Similarly, Asia Impact 
Investment Fund, co-founded by Credit Suisse, deploys capital in businesses that empower women.50