--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 32 to Page 35
Word Range: 13591 - 15196
Word Count: 1,606
--------------------

[Page 32]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
32 
gross value added could double in size by 2030, reaching around US  $3 trillion. Some ocean industries’ value 
added is set to grow even faster than the world economy.164 These include marine aquaculture, capture fisheries, 
fish processing, offshore wind, and port activities. Emerging trends include use of marine living resources such 
as algae for pharmaceuticals and chemicals, trade of non -edible seafood products for use in cosmetics, and 
marine renewable energy sources —including wave and tidal and ocean thermal energy conversion, deep sea 
exploration for minerals and resources, marine bio technology. It is important to identify the value of MSMEs in 
these emerging industries and to build the capacity of existing small entrepreneu rs and foster start-ups to 
maximize the role of small-scale businesses in the marine sector.  
 
A small firm develops technology for reducing marine pollution        
 
ECOncrete®165 is a young science -based company that provides bio -enhancing concrete solutions that enhance marine 
life and help reduce the ecological footprint of coastal and marine development projects, protecting and rejuvenating 
coastlines, while sustaining and enhancing marine biodiversity. The bio-enhanced concrete has a unique combination of 
innovative admix, rough surface textures, and 3D designs that encourage and support colonization of rich and diverse 
marine plants and animals, enhancing biodiversity rather t han reducing it. Not only is bio -enhanced concrete strong 
enough to withstand harsh marine environments, the enhanced marine growth on ECOncrete® actually increases the 
strength and durability of the structure in a cost -effective, low-carbon solution, redu cing the carbon footprint of ports, 
marinas and other coastal development projects, while making them more resilient and adaptive to climate change.

[Page 33]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
33 
Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt 
and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 
  
This goal has 12 targets. They focus on sustainable management of inland freshwater 
ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, 
address deforestation, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, ensure 
conservation of mountain ecosystems including their biodiversity, and promote equitable 
sharing of the benefits arising from th e utilization of genetic resources. The targets call for 
an end to poaching and trafficking of protected species, promote protection against invasive 
species, promote ecosystem-based planning and global cooperation on conservation, and promote land -based 
ecosystems. 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 15? 
 
Agribusinesses and smallholder farmers have a critical role to play in conserving land-based ecosystems. Today’s 
dominant industrial food system is rapidly depleting and degrading the world’s soil, water and biod iversity. 
Environmental damages caused by industrial and agriculture activities cost the world US $3 trillion each year , 
according to the United Nations . Small -scale food producers make up 90 percent of farmers worldwide. 166 
Adoption of agro-ecological methods through capacity building of small -scale producers can foster biodiversity, 
natural soil fertility, water conservation and biological control of insects and shift food production to a sustainable 
path.167 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Measure, manage, and mitigate impacts on ecosystems and natural resources. 168 
▪ Scale up best practices for land-use planning and management.169 
▪ Commit to and implement responsible sourcing practices beyond compliance, applying 
environmental and social safeguards for all raw materials and commodities.  
New business solutions and opportunities for MSMEs. The 
Business & Sustainable Development Commission estimates 
forest ecosystem services have a potential value of US $140-365 
billion a year by 2030. Deforestation and forest degradation 
account for 17 percent of global emissions  -more than 
transport. 170  Just f our commodities, beef, soy, palm oil and 
paper/pulp, are responsible for driving half of all deforestation.171 
It is expected that  a carbon pr ice of US $50 per tonne by 2030 
will open up major new opportunities in sustainable forest 
services, such as climate change mitigation, watershed services 
and biodiversity conservation, if mechani sms to pay for them develop too.  One hundred and fourteen 
governments have made commitments to ecological restoration as part of their overall plans to tackle a changing 
climate, pledging to restore 16 2 million hectares of land . 172  More and more enterprises are seeing the 
commercial potential in sectors related to ecological restoration, including those whose main value proposition 
is linked to forest and landscape restoration. This may be a direct link, enterprises that plant trees, for example, 
or an indirect one, such as companies that offer technology or consulting services for restoration. A restoration 
enterprise can also include companies whose revenues are not directly linked to restoration, but whose 
customers are drawn to them because they channel th eir profits toward restoration. Existing MSMEs and start-

[Page 34]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
34 
ups need to be supported with capacity building to tap the new business opportunities stemming from 
contributing to the SDGs.  
 
Small businesses as restoration enterprises 
 
Better Globe Forestry173 is a Kenyan company that works with smallholder farmers to plant Melia volkensii trees, a native 
species known for its resilience to drought. Providing farmers with a range of resources to plant the trees on their lands, 
from seedlings and water supplies to training and microfinance, Better Globe intends to purchase the trees from farmers 
once they are mature, harvesting them and exporting them as high -quality timber. By establishing the trees on semi -arid 
lands with more than a million planted to  date, the company helps retain water and improve soil quality, transforming 
dusty farmlands into oases of grass and vegetation. 
Greenprint Partners,174 (formerly known as Fresh Coast Capital), exemplifies the potential of restoration companies to 
deliver financial, environmental and social returns. As a project developer, Greenprint partners with cities throughout the 
U.S. Midwest to restore and revitalize underserved urban communities through the transformative power of nature. By 
paying Greenprint to install large-scale green infrastructure such as native plants and trees, cities can naturally manage 
stormwater runoff while improving soil and air quality. These projects can save cities millions in infrastructure costs while 
creating restoration jobs and improving property values, delivering triple-win scenarios for the company, the city and the 
environment. 
Ecosia175 is an online search engine that displays ads next to its search results. Ecosia earns revenue every time a user 
clicks on one of the ads. At leas t 80 percent of its profits are invested into tree -planting programmes in Burkina Faso, 
Madagascar, Peru, Indonesia and Tanzania. While Ecosia’s business model does not directly benefit from trees, its 
customer value proposition is intimately linked to res toring degraded land. Its platform enables users to see how many 
trees have been planted based on individual online activity. With 9 million trees planted to date, Ecosia proves that 
business models that indirectly promote restoration can be effective at creating large-scale impact.

[Page 35]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
35 
Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels  
 
This goal has 12 targets. The goal focuses on reducing all forms of violence, ending 
exploitation, trafficking and violence against and torture of children. The targets promote rule 
of law, calls for reducing illicit financial and arms flows, reducing corruption, promoting 
transparency of institutions, promoting participatory decision making and access to 
information, ensuring legal identity through birth registration, promoting international 
cooperation, and non-discriminatory laws and policies.  
 
Can MSMEs help to achieve Goal 16? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for promoting good governance principles. Adopting ethical business practices and 
standards and promoting integration of these standards within value chains of MSMEs can be beneficial for their 
growth and profitability. For example, clean business without having to make illegal payments can lower the cost 
of production or operation. Maintaining strong business ethics and integrity can help strengthen customer 
relationships, improve reputation and win more business. Businesses no longe r view adoption of good 
governance standards as compliance but also internalize these approaches as part of business risk 
management strategies. 176 MSMEs which often take up a large share of the business community have the 
potential for adopting governance p rinciples if they are provided with the necessary support and resources. 
Support should also extend to informal enterprises to become formalized.  
MSMEs have a role in conflict/violence prevention. MSMEs provide incomes to poor families, women and youth 
through employment and entrepreneurship  opportunities. Supporting women and youth -led enterprises is 
therefore considered an effective strategy for violence prevention as incomes from entrepreneurship can 
motivate yo ung people not to take up arms or to participate in crime. Supporting youth and women -led 
businesses, particularly those who are marginalized, can contribute to a more inclusive society which in turn 
promotes peace. The SDG Fund demonstrates several such initiatives that support farmer’s groups in Colombia 
following the long-term conflict, support women’s cooperatives in the Occupied Territory of Palestine and target 
unemployed ex -combatants with youth entrepreneurship development in Sierra Leone. 177  These MSME 
promotion strategies were mainl y targeted to prevent violence and promote peace as part of post -conflict 
recovery.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.   
They can: 
▪ Comply with laws and seek to meet international standards; requiring and supporting business 
partners to do the same.178  
▪ Conduct risks assessment to examine and monitor external patterns that could affect business 
operations. 
▪ Support organization or participation of employees to training programmes on prevent ion of 
violence; incorporate violence prevention measures in enterprise management regulations.