--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C57
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 35 to Page 36
Word Range: 15890 - 16139
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 35]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
35 
Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels  
 
This goal has 12 targets. The goal focuses on reducing all forms of violence, ending 
exploitation, trafficking and violence against and torture of children. The targets promote rule 
of law, calls for reducing illicit financial and arms flows, reducing corruption, promoting 
transparency of institutions, promoting participatory decision making and access to 
information, ensuring legal identity through birth registration, promoting international 
cooperation, and non-discriminatory laws and policies.  
 
Can MSMEs help to achieve Goal 16? 
 
MSMEs have the potential for promoting good governance principles. Adopting ethical business practices and 
standards and promoting integration of these standards within value chains of MSMEs can be beneficial for their 
growth and profitability. For example, clean business without having to make illegal payments can lower the cost 
of production or operation. Maintaining strong business ethics and integrity can help strengthen customer 
relationships, improve reputation and win more business. Businesses no longe r view adoption of good 
governance standards as compliance but also internalize these approaches as part of business risk 
management strategies. 176 MSMEs which often take up a large share of the business community have the 
potential for adopting governance p rinciples if they are provided with the necessary support and resources. 
Support should also extend to informal enterprises to become formalized.  
MSMEs have a role in conflict/violence prevention. MSMEs provide incomes to poor families, women and youth 
through employment and entrepreneurship  opportunities. Supporting women and youth -led enterprises is 
therefore considered an effective strategy for violence prevention as incomes from entrepreneurship can 
motivate yo ung people not to take up arms or to participate in crime. Supporting youth and women -led 
businesses, particularly those who are marginalized, can contribute to a more inclusive society which in turn 
promotes peace. The SDG Fund demonstrates several such initiatives that support farmer’s groups in Colombia 
following the long-term conflict, support women’s cooperatives in the Occupied Territory of Palestine and target 
unemployed ex -combatants with youth entrepreneurship development in Sierra Leone. 177  These MSME 
promotion strategies were mainl y targeted to prevent violence and promote peace as part of post -conflict 
recovery.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.   
They can: 
▪ Comply with laws and seek to meet international standards; requiring and supporting business 
partners to do the same.178  
▪ Conduct risks assessment to examine and monitor external patterns that could affect business 
operations. 
▪ Support organization or participation of employees to training programmes on prevent ion of 
violence; incorporate violence prevention measures in enterprise management regulations.

[Page 36]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
36 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs resulting from the 2030 Agenda and SDGs. Supply 
chain policies and programmes offer key 
opportunities for companies to scale up their 
sustainability practices, thus contributing to the 
advancement of the SDGs.179 Traceability is the 
ability to identify and trace the history, 
distribution, location and application of 
products, parts and materials, to ensure  the 
reliability of sustainability claims, in the areas of 
human rights, labour (including health and 
safety), the environment and anti-corruption.180 
Adopting traceability schemes and initiatives 
can lead to an increase in market base and 
appeal, in many cases allowing MSMEs to offset 
costs involved in adopting these schemes by 
charging premium prices for their products and 
services of higher quality.  
 
Business examples and initiatives that promote MSME governance         
Dipantara and the traceability scheme.181 Global traceability organizations, such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), 
the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and UTZ Certified, engage with stakeholders along the entire value chain. This 
allows for the development of a credible and robust chain of custody standards and certification for products from the raw 
material to the final use phase. Dipantara, a small community wood trading initiative in the province of Java, Indonesia, 
has developed a group business model aimed at helping smallholder farmers and farmers’ groups in the region sell their 
wood to the international market. Maisons du Monde, a UN Global Compact participant signatory, and The Forest Trust 
(TFT) homeware retail member has supported the Dipantara farmers’ initiative by placing orders for its stores. Dipantara, 
as a non -profit business entity, partners with 96 farmers’ groups across 22 villages totaling 7,966 farmers that have 
registered with the business. By 2012, it had helped 20 of these farmer groups achieve Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certification. The initiative’s efforts help buyers identify the source of wood and trace it back to the tree stump, while at  
the same time increasing revenues for farmers with smallholdings. 
Initiatives promoting MSME governance  
The Basel Institute182 provides anti-corruption collective action, compliance and bribery prevention guidance services to 
MSMEs through the new Business Integrity Consultancy Service, part of the UK government’s Business Integrity Initiative. 
MSMEs that meet the eligibility criteria can submit an application to receive subsidized anti-corruption guidance services 
in three areas – (i) anti-corruption compliance, (ii) corruption and bribery prevention and (iii) anti -corruption Collective 
Action. Depending on their size, companies that receive services will be asked to pay only 20 or 40 percent of the total 
cost of the service.  
The Integrity App183 is an innovative tool to support MSMEs in sustainability compliance.  It was launched by the Allia nce 
for Integrity at the beginning of 2017 and provides a one-stop-shop online platform where companies can track their levels 
of compliance based on a questionnaire developed in line with international standards and receive an immediate status 
report and recommendations on how to improve. Further, the platform is a reliable source of information, provides tools, 
workshops, and webinars and even offers consultations and implementation support.