--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C32
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 22
Word Range: 9094 - 9343
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 22]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
22 
practices for integrating knowledge created by external partners with in -house prac tices and innovation 
processes.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal . They 
can establish standard s and promote regulations that ensure projects and initiatives are sustainably 
managed.104 They could also promote innovation by giving all stakeholders the opportunity to offer creative 
solutions to sustainability challenges.105 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The SDGs promote r esource-use 
efficiency and greater adoption of environment-friendly industrial processes. This transition of businesses and 
the economy will open up business opportunities; MSMEs are well -suited t o replicate and commercialise 
technology and add value in a range of areas, such as software, nanotechnology, biotechnology and clean 
technologies.106 Supporting MSMEs in the uptake of these new technologies and business fields will require 
capacity building , knowledge and technology transfer, financial resources and an enabling policy framework 
conducive for promoting the ease of doing business.  
 
MSMEs driving innovation, business examples from the UNDP SDG Accelerator 
Programme for MSMEs 
 
The following highlights some of the innovative SDG solutions developed with support of the UNDP programme, SDG 
Accelerator for MSMEs.107 
Palsgaard has developed a durable anti-fog coating for industrial food packaging, which keeps food fresh for a longer time, 
thus helping to reduce food waste. Through its global presence,  Palsgaard will market the product worldwide with a 
particular focus on the major packaging manufacturers in Asia and the United States. 
RGS Nordic  is developing a digital platform that enables  carriers to optimise the use of the many trucks visiting the 
company’s more than 35 receiving and handling facilities in Scandinavia every day. The solution will significantly reduce 
the number of empty trucks and, consequently, CO 2 and particle emissions. In the long term, the solution will be a best 
practice example of how sharing of transport data and cooperation between different industry actors can significantly 
reduce freight on European roads for the good of businesses, the environment and for people.   
E.ON is developing a model for replacing fossil fuels in local heat production with eco-friendly and cheaper heat pumps in 
housing blocks, townhouses and schools. Heat production in many Danish housing associations is still based on fossil 
fuels like oil and gas. Moreover, a large number of the plants are outdated and not maintained after many years of wear. 
This results in high energy losses and unnecessary operating costs.