--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 6 to Page 9
Word Range: 1637 - 3387
Word Count: 1,751
--------------------

[Page 6]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
6 
purchasing power, constituting a $5 trillion global consumer market. 12 They offer a market that is increasingly 
being connect ed by mobile phones. The scale of the market and mobile phone penetration provides 
opportunities for market -based solutions in delivering services that will lift people out of poverty. There are 
encouraging entrepreneurial ventures, for example, providing affordable water filters or home treatment systems 
so that households can purify water for themselves, offering low -cost solar-powered lighting systems that can 
provide a few hours of light in the evening, or introducing efficient, multi -fuel cook stoves. Many of these 
initiatives apply micro-franchising.  
 
Small businesses help alleviate poverty through micro-franchising 
 
Micro-franchising uses elements of traditional franchising and targets small businesses. It is broadly defined as small 
businesses that can easily be replicated by following proven marketing and operational concepts. The study ‘Poverty 
Alleviation as a Business’ documented micro -franchising examples where profitable supply chains have been created 
through small businesses d elivering useful products or services that are directly alleviating poverty. Some of these 
examples are:13  
Village Farm and Forestry programme. A female entrepreneur in Bangladesh runs a village farm and forestry programme 
as a social insurance scheme. She runs one of the 2500 private nurseries that deliver almost 100 million tree saplings 
every year. Trees have become a profitable crop for 650,000 families; they serve as an asset as they can be sold at any 
point. The tree can be chopped in case of an emergency (e.g. a child‘s sickness).  
The treadle pump. Over 1 million pumps have been sold to small and marginal farmers. On half an acre, they can grow 
more vegetables or other crops and make an average additional income of $ 100 per year. Around 10,000 micro -
enterprises supply, sell and install the pumps in Bangladesh, India and Nepal.  
Micro–concrete roofing tiles. Over 2,000 workshops operate in more than 35 countries; they produce 150,000 roofs per 
year. The technology is supported by an international network. The cost-effective building materials can have a big scope 
for small enterprises and contribute to closing the housing gap.

[Page 7]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
7 
Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture  
 
This goal has seven targets. The goal focuses on ending hunger, eliminating all forms of 
malnutrition, increasing productivity of farmers, particularly that of small-scale producers and 
sustainability in food production/agriculture sector. Other targets focus on international 
cooperation to promote research, to address global trade of agricultural goods and food 
prices that threaten food security. 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 2? 
 
Smallholder farmers and agricultural -focused MSMEs directly contribute to the goal. 
MSMEs directly link to SDG Target 2.3 and promote interventions to develop capacity of 
small-scale farmers and agriculture -focused MSMEs. 14 A large share  of farmers in the 
developing world are small-scale producers. The percentage of small-scale food producers 
for countries with available data in Africa, Asia and Latin America ranges from about 40 
to about 85 percent. In Nepal, the proportion of small-scale food producers is 43 percent, 
whereas in Armenia and Nicaragua it is about 85 percent. 15 In most other countries, the 
proportion of small-scale food producers is between 50 to 70 percent. 16 The capacity of 
small-scale producers needs strengthening because their incomes and productivity are 
systematically lower than those of large food producers. Incomes of small-scale producers 
range from a few hundred US dollars per year in countries such as Kenya, Tanzania,  
Uganda and Ethiopia, to over US $3, 000 per year in countries such as Vietnam, Iraq and 
Mongolia.17 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal .  MSMEs can 
support and encourage small -scale farming, ensure sourcing from local entities and small-scale producers for 
office purposes as much as possible and d emonstrate transparency in the agricultural supply chain  particularly 
when sourcing. 18 Malnutrition costs the global economy as much as five percent of glob al GDP in loss of 
productivity and direct healthcare spending.19 Given that MSMEs tend to be labour-intensive, improved nutrition 
status can help produce a healthy workforce and contribute to the improved productivity of MSMEs. MSMEs can 
therefore be incent ivised to conduct nutrition education and awareness programmes to improve household 
dietary habits. These initiatives can promote consumption of food from small-scale producers at the same time. 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve  the SDGs. Climate-smart agricultural 
approaches can help to achieve several aspects of the goal, including the sustainability of the agricultural value 
chain, and at the same time increasing productivity of farmers . In India and Rwanda, food waste reducin g 
technologies minimise post -harvest losses  and have resulted in  reduced losses by over 60 percent – and 
increased smallholder farmers’ incomes by more than 30 percent. 20 The report of the Business & Sustainable 
Development Commission estimates that address ing challenges in the food and agriculture sector in line with 
the SDGs have a potential value in 2030 of US  $1.8 trillion in current prices. 21 This includes a range of areas 
such as reducing food waste, digital services for the agriculture sector, farming technology, micro -irrigation, 
forest ecosystems and restoring degraded land. Areas for innovation and new business solutions identified by 
the Agri-Food Chain Coalition of Europe include new plant breeding methods and products, animal diets and 
specialty feed ingredients, which can help reduce the environmental footprint of animal farming, agricultural 
technologies, including genetically -modified organisms that help develop new seeds, manufacturing of 
agricultural machinery that reduces carbon emissions, an d handling plants and fertilizers through safety 
standards management of agricultural waste and tools to improve fertilizer use. 22 While MSMEs are already

[Page 8]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
8 
active in these new areas, support to MSME capacity -building and access to technology for small and me dium 
agriculture-based enterprises can contribute significantly to the achievement of Goal 2. 
 
 Business examples supporting MSMEs  
 
The Okata Farm and Food Processing. Founded by a women entrepreneur, Okata Farm and Food Processing is a 
small enterprise in Ghana with 32 employees. The enterprise worked with over 3200 farmers producing organic crops 
including maize, rice and soy. 80% of the farm ers who Okata works with are women. Focusing not only on business 
profits, Okata has won national and international awards recognizing its socially and ecologically -responsible 
business models. The company helps women farmers gain access to financial resou rces and provide trainings for 
them on organic farming and food fortification. Contributions of the company has helped women and youth in 
communities earn more income, in addition to planting organic crops with higher nutrition and market values. In 
December 2017, Okata Farm and Food Processing was selected as the second -best farm of Ghana with the 
recognition of their contributions to improving food and nutrition security among low income population group among 
communities they work with.

[Page 9]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
9 
Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
  
This goal has 13 targets. The targets cover a range of areas from reducing maternal, neonatal 
and infant mortality, eliminating epidemics, reducing non -communicable diseases, 
addressing substance abuse, tobacco control, reducing deaths from road accidents and 
injuries, and from exposure to pollution and achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC). The 
targets also focus on promoting global cooperation on research for vaccines and  medicines, 
health financing and addressing global and national health risks.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 3? 
 
MSMEs are healthcare providers. The healthcare sector involves a range of 
business areas for private sector participation from health services to retail 
to life sciences and medical education. In a survey conducted by the AXA 
Group and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Finance 
Initiative's Principles for Sustainable Insurance on the impacts of climate 
change on MSMEs, 9 percent of the 1,104 MSMEs surveyed were involved 
in the healthcare sector, showing a relatively high number in this area .23 
Most healthcare companies in Africa are owner -managed and small 
(typically less than US $0.5 million in profits).24  
MSMEs are bridging the healthcare gap  through better-quality healthcare services and the provision of a wider 
range of basic laboratory  and imaging services. 25 Further, MSMEs are progressively taking the leading role as 
innovators of low -cost, high -volume delivery models, driven by increased competition for the  same customer 
base. However, MSMEs are facing several challenges , such as the lack of strict regulatory standards and the 
lack of resources to hire professionals with skills to manage the operational inefficiencies .26 Supporting small 
and medium healthcare enterprises to overcome these challenges can contribute to improving healthcare 
provision and progress towards this goal. 
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  They 
may make investments in health a priority in business preparations. They should also offer employee health 
benefits,27 and encourage staff to explore ideas they have for activities that offer them a break and re-energize 
them at work.28 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The health sector faces a range of 
challenges from in effectiveness of drugs to communicable diseases, increasing non -communicable diseases, 
and growing elderly population and needs, skills and supply gaps in developing countries. To achieve the goal, 
these challenges need to be addressed. The report of the B usiness & Sustainable Development Commission 
estimates that these challenges have a potential value of US $1.8 trillion in 2030 in current prices.29 Some of 
these new areas that are critical to delivering the goal include risk pooling, activity services, low -cost surgery, 
better disease management, telehealth, remote patient monitoring, detection of counterfeit drugs, electronic 
medical records, advanced genomics, weight management programmes and healthcare training. MSMEs already 
play a key role in these areas. Existing MSMEs and start -ups can be further supported to capitalize on these 
business opportunities to achieve the goal. Increased healthcare spending can boost business opportunities and 
service areas for MSMEs. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that achieving the SDG health targets 
would require new investments increasing over time from an initial US  $134 billion annually to $371 b illion, or 
$58 per person, by 2030 under the ‘ambitious scenario’ and new investments increasing from an initial US $104 
billion a year to $274 billion, or $41 per person, by 2030 under the ‘progress scenario’.30