--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C49
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 30
Word Range: 13622 - 13919
Word Count: 298
--------------------

[Page 30]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
30 
▪ Create a Green Travel Policy to encourage staff to use more sustainable forms of travel and 
improve low-carbon lorry fleet planning along their supply chains.151  
▪ Directly engage with community members to promote adaptive practices. 152  
  
MSMEs respond to emerging climate risks and climate-induced events      
 
MSMEs can contribute to climate change adaptation by providing climate -resilient products and services for vu lnerable 
communities. One example documented by WRI153 and others is: 
Ignitia.154 The yields of small-scale farmers in sub-Saharan Africa are the lowest in the world, contributing to the challenge 
of food insecurity. It is estimated that between 20 percent and 80 percent of annual yields are lost due to climate 
uncertainties. Ignitia, a high-tech social enterprise, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA)155 with a commitment to 
deliver reliable, targeted, low-cost tropical weather forecasts via text messages to 1.2 million small-scale farmers in West 
Africa by the end of 2017. Small -scale farmers in the tropics have limited access to reliable weather forecasts, which 
seriously constrains their ability to plan farming activities. To fill this gap, Ignitia created a forecasting model that creates 
reliable, GPS -specific weather forecasts . Launched in Ghana in 2014, iska™ has proven to be 84 percent accurate 
compared with global forecasts, such as those found on the BBC or CNN, which only achieve 39 percent accuracy in West 
Africa. With iska™, smallholder farmers receive the vital information they need to mitigate risk and create resilience. The 
farmers are charged the equivalent of US $0.04 per day for the service; they can pay in micro -instalments from pre-paid 
mobile credit. Over the entire season, this typically adds up to less than 2 percent of a farmer’s total expenditure on inputs.