--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C46
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 28 to Page 29
Word Range: 12778 - 13027
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 28]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
28 
and good sustainability practices. 137  Business development support programmes provided by government 
departments and international organizations need to share additional good practices with MSME entrepreneurs 
on demonstrating sustainability as promising  business solutions conducive for enhancing efficiency, innovation 
and positive recognition among stakeholders.  
MSMEs can contribute to sustainability reporting. Currently, a small percentage of MSMEs carry out sustainability 
reporting. In 2015, MSMEs accounted for just 10 percent of the total number of sustainability reports captured 
in the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability Disclosure Database, with 90  percent coming from large 
and multinational organizations. 138 Yet, sustainability reporting  is vital for micro, small, medium  and large 
enterprises alike.139 MSMEs need to be motivated to start reporting and need to be made aware of the benefits 
of reporting. According to Stichting GRI, benefits include increased transparency to stakeholders and b etter risk 
management, while driving business development and the optimization of business processes.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal .  
They can: 
▪ Reduce manufacturing impacts by substituting raw materials in products with post-consumer 
materials through recycling and upcycling.140 
▪ Significantly reduce waste and ensure that any unavoidable waste is utilized to the fullest degree 
(e.g. organic waste as fuel or fertilizer).141 
▪ Conduct a simple audit to see where money is being spent, what waste it relates to and what 
MSME entrepreneurs could do to prevent negative environmental impacts as the first step to 
develop an impact reduction plan.142 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will  help achieve the SDGs. Promotion of sustainable practice 
will offer new or competitive business opportunities for MSMEs in a range of areas : public procurement , 
consumer information (such as eco-labelling, certification), sustainable tourism, lifestyle education, retrofitting 
buildings and construction, and food systems. A potential area is the circular model and approaches to design, 
manufacturing and reuse which keep resources in play for as long as possible and recover and reuse spent 
materials and prod ucts. The  report of the Business & Sustainable Development Commission estimates that 
circular models in the automotive industry  have a potential value in 2030 of  US $475-810 billion in current 
prices and circular models of appliances and machinery have a p otential value in 2030 of US $305 -525 
billion.143 MSMEs can play a critical role in the logistics of circular businesses and recycling processes. Start-ups 
and existing MSMEs need to be equipped with skills, matched with investors and markets to exploit thes e 
opportunities, which in turn will contribute to the progress of this goal.  
MSMEs and green public procurement    
One of the challenges for MSMEs to participate in green public procurement is the need for use of ecolabels and 
certifications, which incurs costs, resources and expertise that MSMEs are not able to cover. The Brazilian Development 
Bank (BNDES) offers a cr edit card to MSMEs (through several commercial banks), with up to 48 months to pay and 
preferential interest rates, which can be used to pay for raw materials and other goods, as well as for services, such as 
metrology, standardization and conformity assessment services (calibration, laboratory tests, certifications), such as ISO 
certification provided by entities accredited by the national accreditation body. This is complemented by SEBRAE, a 
Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service. This organiz ation has implemented several programmes to foster 
entrepreneurship. SEBRAE subsidizes 50 percent of the value of the service approved for the MSMEs (which is responsible 
to pay the rest), or 60 percent in the case of Individual Micro-entrepreneurs or Rural Producers. The MSME’s counterpart 
can be paid using the BNDES card described before. The services that can be accessed through SEBRAE’s Sebraetec 
include product design, ISO certification, OHSA certifications, and certification of organic products, among other services. 
Although the direct impact of this initiative is unknown, evidence shows that MSMEs have sustainable business practices 
in Brazil. In 2014, MSMEs accounted for 66.8 percent of the reported sustainable purchases in Brazil and out of 3,563 
suppliers that were registered for sustainable purchases, 89 percent were MSMEs.

[Page 29]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
29 
Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its 
impacts  
 
This goal has five targets. They promote adaptation against impacts of climate change, 
strengthening planning to integrate climate risks at various levels, increasing awareness of 
stakeholders on climate risks and impacts, and building global cooperation to support 
climate action and build capacity of countries to address climate issues.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 13? 
 
MSMEs have the potential to make vulnerable populations and households climate resilient. Given that MSMEs 
create employment and entrepreneurship for a large proportion of the population in developing countries, 
MSMEs can enhance capacities of households through stable and diversified incomes to help withstand impacts 
of climate-induced shocks and stressors.   
MSMEs are heavy energy users and have the potential to contribute to mitigation.  
As highlighted under Goal 7, many MSMEs operate in energy-intensive sectors and 
have the potential to contribute to mitigation. An estimate of climate impact of 
MSMEs shows that the sectors with the largest volumes of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions were found in three sectors for whi ch data were available - agriculture, 
hunting, forestry and fishing ; manufacturing and e lectricity; gas and water 
supply. 144 The number of MSMEs active in these sectors were 88 million, 49 
million and 1 million, respectively. If informal enterprises were added, the numbers 
were even higher. 145 This demonstrates the scale of MSMEs and the role MSMEs 
can play in GHG mitigation. Mitigation activities of MSMEs include reducing energy 
use by supporting a switch to energy efficient approaches for lighting, buildings,  
and refrigeration; reducing emissions by supporting a switch to renewable energy 
sources; or improving water conservation by supporting behavioural change 
towards pollution and water use.146 
MSMEs can contribute to adaptation of economic activities/sectors.  MSME-dominant sectors such as 
agriculture, manufacturing and services are vulnerable to climate-induced events such as floods, droughts, and 
sea level rise. A discussion paper on metalworking enterprises in India shows direct impacts on their buildings, 
manufacturing processes and infrastructure from higher frequency of hot days or heavy rainfall and indirect 
impacts on their supply chains and markets, including rising energy and material prices or change of demand in 
response to climate change effects. 147 Based on a climate change sensitivity assessment, an analysis shows 
that climate change plays a catalytic role speeding up and intensifying already existing challenges for MSMEs in 
India, including resource strain and infrastructural problems. MSMEs’ vulner ability to climate change is 
compounded by the fact that many operate outside the formal sector. These businesses will have limited access 
to public social safety nets, formal finance channels, and post-disaster insurance, making it difficult for them to 
recover from the impact of  extreme weather events.  Addressing capacities of MSMEs is key to strengthening 
adaptive capacity of key economic sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, food processing, tourism, etc.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Conduct a simple energy audit and make changes like adoption to energy-efficient LED lighting.148 
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and s upply chain.149 
▪ Expand sustainable forest management through responsible sourcing practices .150