--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 29 to Page 31
Word Range: 12243 - 13590
Word Count: 1,348
--------------------

[Page 29]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
29 
Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its 
impacts  
 
This goal has five targets. They promote adaptation against impacts of climate change, 
strengthening planning to integrate climate risks at various levels, increasing awareness of 
stakeholders on climate risks and impacts, and building global cooperation to support 
climate action and build capacity of countries to address climate issues.  
 
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 13? 
 
MSMEs have the potential to make vulnerable populations and households climate resilient. Given that MSMEs 
create employment and entrepreneurship for a large proportion of the population in developing countries, 
MSMEs can enhance capacities of households through stable and diversified incomes to help withstand impacts 
of climate-induced shocks and stressors.   
MSMEs are heavy energy users and have the potential to contribute to mitigation.  
As highlighted under Goal 7, many MSMEs operate in energy-intensive sectors and 
have the potential to contribute to mitigation. An estimate of climate impact of 
MSMEs shows that the sectors with the largest volumes of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions were found in three sectors for whi ch data were available - agriculture, 
hunting, forestry and fishing ; manufacturing and e lectricity; gas and water 
supply. 144 The number of MSMEs active in these sectors were 88 million, 49 
million and 1 million, respectively. If informal enterprises were added, the numbers 
were even higher. 145 This demonstrates the scale of MSMEs and the role MSMEs 
can play in GHG mitigation. Mitigation activities of MSMEs include reducing energy 
use by supporting a switch to energy efficient approaches for lighting, buildings,  
and refrigeration; reducing emissions by supporting a switch to renewable energy 
sources; or improving water conservation by supporting behavioural change 
towards pollution and water use.146 
MSMEs can contribute to adaptation of economic activities/sectors.  MSME-dominant sectors such as 
agriculture, manufacturing and services are vulnerable to climate-induced events such as floods, droughts, and 
sea level rise. A discussion paper on metalworking enterprises in India shows direct impacts on their buildings, 
manufacturing processes and infrastructure from higher frequency of hot days or heavy rainfall and indirect 
impacts on their supply chains and markets, including rising energy and material prices or change of demand in 
response to climate change effects. 147 Based on a climate change sensitivity assessment, an analysis shows 
that climate change plays a catalytic role speeding up and intensifying already existing challenges for MSMEs in 
India, including resource strain and infrastructural problems. MSMEs’ vulner ability to climate change is 
compounded by the fact that many operate outside the formal sector. These businesses will have limited access 
to public social safety nets, formal finance channels, and post-disaster insurance, making it difficult for them to 
recover from the impact of  extreme weather events.  Addressing capacities of MSMEs is key to strengthening 
adaptive capacity of key economic sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, food processing, tourism, etc.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal :  
They can: 
▪ Conduct a simple energy audit and make changes like adoption to energy-efficient LED lighting.148 
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and s upply chain.149 
▪ Expand sustainable forest management through responsible sourcing practices .150

[Page 30]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
30 
▪ Create a Green Travel Policy to encourage staff to use more sustainable forms of travel and 
improve low-carbon lorry fleet planning along their supply chains.151  
▪ Directly engage with community members to promote adaptive practices. 152  
  
MSMEs respond to emerging climate risks and climate-induced events      
 
MSMEs can contribute to climate change adaptation by providing climate -resilient products and services for vu lnerable 
communities. One example documented by WRI153 and others is: 
Ignitia.154 The yields of small-scale farmers in sub-Saharan Africa are the lowest in the world, contributing to the challenge 
of food insecurity. It is estimated that between 20 percent and 80 percent of annual yields are lost due to climate 
uncertainties. Ignitia, a high-tech social enterprise, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA)155 with a commitment to 
deliver reliable, targeted, low-cost tropical weather forecasts via text messages to 1.2 million small-scale farmers in West 
Africa by the end of 2017. Small -scale farmers in the tropics have limited access to reliable weather forecasts, which 
seriously constrains their ability to plan farming activities. To fill this gap, Ignitia created a forecasting model that creates 
reliable, GPS -specific weather forecasts . Launched in Ghana in 2014, iska™ has proven to be 84 percent accurate 
compared with global forecasts, such as those found on the BBC or CNN, which only achieve 39 percent accuracy in West 
Africa. With iska™, smallholder farmers receive the vital information they need to mitigate risk and create resilience. The 
farmers are charged the equivalent of US $0.04 per day for the service; they can pay in micro -instalments from pre-paid 
mobile credit. Over the entire season, this typically adds up to less than 2 percent of a farmer’s total expenditure on inputs.

[Page 31]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
31 
Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 
resources for sustainable development 
 
This goal has ten targets. They encourage reduction in marine pollution, sustainable 
management of marine and coastal ecosystems, regulation of overfishing, protection of 
marine ecosystems and oceans, promotion of research to address ocean acidification, 
promotion of benefi ts of marine resources to small island developing state s, promotion of 
international cooperation, research and capacity building on marine technology, and in 
promotion of conservation.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 14? 
 
Small-scale fishery and marine -based enterprises are directly relevant to the goal . Target 14.b “provide access 
for small -scale artisanal fishers to marine resources and 
markets”. The small -scale, artisanal fishery sector 
encompasses pre-harvest, harvest and post -harvest, and 
employs both men and women in almost equal measure s, 
with a high female participation in fish processing and small-
scale fish trading operations. 156 Some 90 to 95 percent of 
the catch produced by small -scale landings is used for the 
consumption of local communities and i n some developing 
countries, including small island deve loping states ( SIDS), 
small-scale fisheries provide more than 60 percent of protein 
intake. 157  If small -scale actors are capacitated with 
monitoring of fishery management systems and marine 
resource governance, it could help to relieve environmental 
pressures stemming from overfishing .158  
Building MSME capabilities to promote sustainability of value chains.  Sustainable practices , such as eco-
labelling, and traceability systems for wild  catch will help MSMEs become more competitive, considering the 
increased demands of consumers for fair trade, organic a nd BioTrade products .159 There has already been 
evidence showing seafood production certified under global sustainability initiatives grew 40 -fold from 2003 to 
2015 and now represents more than 14 percent of global production. 160 As indicated under Goal 12, MSMEs 
face challenges in adopting certifications and eco -labelling due to the resources and costs involved. Technical 
assistance and financing to cover costs of certification can help small-scale marine-based enterprises to become 
more competitive for their business operations, contributing to the progress of this goal.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Track the product life cycle to understand how they are disposed, and which products could likely 
find their way into marine environments.161 
▪ Record and disclose information on the chemical makeup and material usage of p roducts, 
packaging, and processing systems to facilitate closing the loop. 
▪ Prevent waste mismanagement or littering that could pollute the marine environment.  
▪ Understand climate risk and build resilience into the company’s assets and supply chain. 162 
New business models/solutions and opportunities for MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The OECD projects 
a marked acceleration in economic activity in the ocean by 2030, based on the rapidly expanding ocean 
industries combined with expectations of moderate growth in already large industries like maritime and coastal 
tourism, offshore oil and gas, shipbuilding and maritime equipment. 163 Conservatively, ocean-based industries’