--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C16
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 4318 - 4702
Word Count: 385
--------------------

[Page 12]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
12 
▪ Use their voice in addition to investment in education programming. MSMEs can increase their 
engagement at high-level policy discussions by lobbying for increased public funding and 
prioritization on education related issues such as girls’ education. 39 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The SDG agenda provi des an 
ambitious framework to address education sector challenges. Innovation can help bring about the 
transformation needed to meet this ambitious agenda, and MSMEs could contribute to the creation and 
innovation for expanding the scope of inclusive education. This includes online/remote learning and educational 
opportunities, and digital education for development of skills of education professionals. The global market for 
educational products and services is growing rapidly (by nearly 50 percent from 2012 to 2017), primarily driven 
by an expanding middle class in emerging economies. 40 This trend indicates greater opportunities for business. 
Existing education-based enterprises and start -ups need to be supported through expanded access to finance 
and innovations to fully tap these opportunities and help achieve this goal.  
 
Innovative MSMEs providing education  
 
Kidogo.41 While 90 percent of brain development takes place between ages 0 to 5, 150 million children across the globe 
do not have access to ECE. The SDGs reassert the importance of ECE, as well as the potential of ECEs for social enterprises. 
One successful example is Kidogo, which is a social enterprise that provides high-quality, affordable early childhood care 
and education for families living in Africa’s urban slums. They build early childhood development “hubs” that provide 
affordable, high -quality childcare a nd pre-school services using certified early childhood development teachers and a 
customized curriculum. These hubs serve as best practice early childhood development models and offer quality care, 
including nutritious meals and health monitoring. Kidogo micro-franchises their model by providing training, support, and 
resources to assist local women to open high-quality and affordable home-run care centers. These women receive Kidogo’s 
“business-in-a-box” kit, which includes curriculum materials, several we eks of intensive training, a franchising package 
with resources such as signage and uniforms, facility renovations, and training in the basics of small business 
management, including financial literacy and marketing. 
Moringa School. 42 A partnership between Moringa School, a Kenya -based coding school, and Hack Reactor, a coding 
trainer based in the U.S., identifies children with strong tech potential and gives them top-notch web development training, 
in the process creating a future talent pool for the scheme’s partners, which include Safaricom and Barclays.