--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C41
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 26 to Page 27
Word Range: 11416 - 11665
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 26]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
26 
MSMEs solving urban challenges    
 
Mobility. Bla Bla Car is a company which has scaled ride sharing between cities across Europe, allowing 1 million tons of 
CO2 emissions to be avoided in just two years. 126 Its website and mobile app connect drivers and passengers willing to 
travel together between cities and share the cost of the journey. The platform has 70 million users in 2019 and is available 
in 22 countries. Other similar start -ups are: Bynd, which off ers commuting car sharing in traffic -bound Sao Paolo, and 
Flattire, a bike-fixing platform from bike-friendly Amsterdam.127 
Housing. ¡Échale! a tu Casa is a social enterprise based in Mexico that co -designs homes with low income families and 
sets up housing committees.128 It sees building communities as a part of the housing solution. It also buys over 60 percent 
of building materials locally and provides employment to local construction workers. Under iÉchale!’s assisted self-building 
programme, participants receive the materials and technical training necessary to build a small house in a month, with 
supervision from a certified architect. The resulting homes, made from ¡Échale!’s patented compressed earth blocks, are 
designed for minimal energy and water use,  making them eco -friendly as well as cheap to run. Green features include 
solar water heaters, wood saving stoves and systems to harvest rainwater. ¡Échale! is exporting its technology to Belize, 
Egypt, Haiti, Nicaragua and the UAE, and is developing a soc ial franchise model to allow others to replicate its success. 
Already, 30,000 houses have been built and over 150,000 homes improved in Mexico alone using its model. PopUp Immo 
is a start up in Hong Kong that offers a marketplace dedicated to short-term commercial real estate rental.129 The company 
aims at making rentals of short-term commercial spaces as easy as making bookings on Airbnb. The platform provides a 
flexible and global platform for brands looking for spaces to renew their customers’ experiences. Property owners reduce 
their vacancy rates and increase their rental yields. 
Waste management. Daily Dump is dedicated to empowering households, individuals and urban communities across India 
to convert their organic waste to high quality compost.130 Indian cities generate 120,000 tonnes of waste a day and over 
50 percent is wet/organic waste. Municipalities face huge challenges in handling this waste. Daily Dump started in 2006 
with a core team of 3 members and 2 support members and potters who made prototy pes. They designed a range of 
composting solutions, which are operated conveniently and hygienically at household level and are increasingly being used 
by offices. It has prevented 4400 kg of waste from reaching land dumps. Once the organic waste productio n reaches a 
certain volume, they are transported to villages to support organic farming.

[Page 27]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
27 
Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
 
This goal has 11 targets. It includes targets to substantially reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction and recycling by 2030, promotes sustainable management of 
natural resources, sustainable lifestyles and consumption behaviours, sustainable business 
practices and sustainability reporting for businesses. The goal calls for int egrating 
sustainability to public procurement and promotes international cooperation on research 
and development that facilitate sustainable consumption and production.  
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 12? 
 
MSMEs as a group have significant cumulative social and environmental impacts. MSMEs form the backbone of 
national economies and the global supply chains of large companies. Individually, MSMEs have relatively small 
environmental and social impacts, but as a group, the impacts are much larger. MSMEs comprise a major share 
of total private sector entities in both 
developed and developing countries ; in  
developing countries such as Peru, 98 percent 
of private enterprises are MSMEs.131 Reducing 
the environmental impact of MSMEs is core to 
the successful performance of this goal. This is 
particularly urgent for MSMEs in the 
manufacturing sector, which accounts for a 
large part of the world’s consumption of 
resources, air and water po llution and 
generation of waste. 132  In India, there is a 
significant number of MSMEs that belong to 
categories recognized as highly polluting 
industries: chemical and allied industries, 
leather industries, textile processing, drugs 
and pharmaceuticals, agro-chemicals and food 
processing industries.133 MSMEs are unable to comply with environmental standards due to factors such as lack 
of information, lack of access to capital, lack of adaptation of environmental regulations to the social, economic 
and technical reality of local businesses and effective possibilities of cont rol bodies, difficulty in recruiting 
qualified personnel, less awareness about environmental issues, and less environmental pressures from 
stakeholders.134 Building capacity of MSMEs in these areas is therefore key to the achievement of the goal .  
SDG Target  12.7 under this goal promotes public procurement practices that are sustainable . MSMEs are a 
major player in public procurement in many countries - 57 percent of the suppliers to public procurement in 
Brazil are MSMEs, up to 98 percent in Ecuador, and in China up to 76.2 percent of the government procurement 
contracts is granted to MSMEs. 135 Greening public procurement can pose challenges for MSME participation in 
public procurement. Strengthening policies and capacity -building support for MSMEs can help add ress the 
challenges MSMEs face to integrate in green public procurement. 
MSMEs have the potential to adopt sustainable business practices. In general, MSMEs are more  flexible than 
large companies, making them  more likely to adopt sustainable business pract ices. MSMEs have to be 
incentivized to adopt sustainable business practices and to report which can be beneficial for them. MSMEs 
need to be informed that the transition can help businesses to become more competitive, cut costs and optimize 
operations. A 2014 McKinsey study found that 44 percent of sustainable business leaders cite growth and new 
business opportunities as reasons for tackling sustainability challenges. 136 In a review of 200 studies on 
sustainability and corporate performance, Oxford University and Arabesque Partners concluded that 90 percent 
of studies in this area found that high environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards reduced 
companies’ cost of capital, and that 80 percent show a positive correlation between stock price performa nce