--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MSME-104-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-MSME-104
Page Range: Page 10 to Page 13
Word Range: 3388 - 5013
Word Count: 1,626
--------------------

[Page 10]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
10 
e-Health MSMEs in Africa  
 
E-health includes a range of products and services that integrate technology to deliver healthcare and are lucrative for 
MSMEs. Emerging technology products include wearable patches that can diagnose heart conditions, sensors that monitor 
asthma medication intake and detect poor air quality, and glucose monitors that send diabetics’ data straight to 
smartphones. In 2017, e-health represented one third of African start-ups.31 Select e-health MSME examples are:  
Helium Health 32 is a small company that originated from Nigeria, which has developed a software system for health 
records and hospital management. It supports hospitals and clinics in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, with a user-friendly 
electronic health record and hospital management system that helps client hospitals to streamline their practices, reduce 
waste and increase their standards of care. 
Peek Vision33 is a Kenyan company that saw a market opportunity in the bulky, fragile and expensive equipment used for 
eye examinations. The firm’s mobile application and US $5 clip allows anyone with a smartphone to turn their handset 
into a diagnostic tool with the ophthalmological accuracy of a US $25,000 camera, able to spot conditions from cataracts 
to glaucoma. 
Kasha is an online store that provides healthcare products to women in Africa. They include hard-to-get products, such as 
emergency contraceptives and condoms with a guaranteed traceability.34

[Page 11]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
11 
Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and 
promote lifelong learning opportunities for all  
 
The goal has 10 targets, which focus on provision of universal and equitable primary and 
secondary education, increasing access to early childhood education (ECE) and vocational 
and tertiary education, and achieving literacy and numeracy. The targets emphasize 
sustainable education and upgrading education facilities with gender-sensitive and disability-
friendly features. Other targets include increasing global cooperation to improve learning 
environments, scholarships, training opportunities and skill development of educators.    
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 4? 
 
MSMEs as providers of technical and vocational 
education. MSMEs, through work-based learning 
programmes (e.g. apprenticeship, career 
education and internship), could become 
informal educational service providers, and 
share technical and competency skills required 
by employers. Contributions of MSMEs to 
Technical and Vocational Education and Training 
(TVET) programmes have been noted in different 
countries in addressing the skill gaps and 
promoting lifelong learning. More efforts would 
still be needed to collect evidence on 
contributions of MSMEs to expanding access to 
formal and informal education services.  
MSMEs as complementary formal education providers. In many developing countries, p ublic schools alone are 
insufficient to ensure the inclusiveness of education services needed to reach the targets included in SDG 4. In 
many countries, MSMEs conducting business in the education sector c ould provide complementary education 
services, expanding the access to educational services to  the general public. 35 For example, in a recent study 
conducted by the Center for Education Innovations tracks, the growth of low-cost private schools had more than 
doubled in India since 1993, while in Kenya, low cost private school enrolment has tripled since 1997 , which 
has contributed to expanding access to educational services . MSMEs could contribute to achieving SDG 4 by 
expanding inclusive access to education services and improving skills of youth and women for obtaining decent 
jobs.  
Individual MSMEs have the potential to adopt actions in their business practice to contribute to the goal.  
They can: 
▪ Create programmes (e.g., apprentice, career education, internships, work-based learning 
programmes, etc.) that give students earlier access to the corporate environment. 36 
▪ Provide employees with continuous learning opportunities to improve their skills for their current 
and future employment.37 
▪ Improve awareness of employees on the importance of ECE, support access of employees to 
quality childcare, mental stimulation and learning through play. 38

[Page 12]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
12 
▪ Use their voice in addition to investment in education programming. MSMEs can increase their 
engagement at high-level policy discussions by lobbying for increased public funding and 
prioritization on education related issues such as girls’ education. 39 
New business models/solutions of MSMEs that will help achieve the SDGs. The SDG agenda provi des an 
ambitious framework to address education sector challenges. Innovation can help bring about the 
transformation needed to meet this ambitious agenda, and MSMEs could contribute to the creation and 
innovation for expanding the scope of inclusive education. This includes online/remote learning and educational 
opportunities, and digital education for development of skills of education professionals. The global market for 
educational products and services is growing rapidly (by nearly 50 percent from 2012 to 2017), primarily driven 
by an expanding middle class in emerging economies. 40 This trend indicates greater opportunities for business. 
Existing education-based enterprises and start -ups need to be supported through expanded access to finance 
and innovations to fully tap these opportunities and help achieve this goal.  
 
Innovative MSMEs providing education  
 
Kidogo.41 While 90 percent of brain development takes place between ages 0 to 5, 150 million children across the globe 
do not have access to ECE. The SDGs reassert the importance of ECE, as well as the potential of ECEs for social enterprises. 
One successful example is Kidogo, which is a social enterprise that provides high-quality, affordable early childhood care 
and education for families living in Africa’s urban slums. They build early childhood development “hubs” that provide 
affordable, high -quality childcare a nd pre-school services using certified early childhood development teachers and a 
customized curriculum. These hubs serve as best practice early childhood development models and offer quality care, 
including nutritious meals and health monitoring. Kidogo micro-franchises their model by providing training, support, and 
resources to assist local women to open high-quality and affordable home-run care centers. These women receive Kidogo’s 
“business-in-a-box” kit, which includes curriculum materials, several we eks of intensive training, a franchising package 
with resources such as signage and uniforms, facility renovations, and training in the basics of small business 
management, including financial literacy and marketing. 
Moringa School. 42 A partnership between Moringa School, a Kenya -based coding school, and Hack Reactor, a coding 
trainer based in the U.S., identifies children with strong tech potential and gives them top-notch web development training, 
in the process creating a future talent pool for the scheme’s partners, which include Safaricom and Barclays.

[Page 13]
UNDESA – Report on MSMEs and the Sustainable Development Goals  
 
13 
Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls  
 
This goal has nine targets. The targets push for ending discrimination based on gender, 
ending violence against women and harmful practices against women and girls, promoting 
participation of women in decision making, improving women’s access to economic 
resources, technology and reproductive health services, and strengthening overall policies 
and laws to promote gender equality.  
 
 
Can MSMEs help achieve Goal 5? 
 
A significant proportion of MSMEs are women -owned/led.  Based on the 
findings from the International Finance Corporation (IFC)’s Enterprise Finance 
Gap Assessment Database, it is estimated that globally there are roughly 9.34 
million formal women -owned MSMEs in over 140 assessed countries, which 
is approximately one third of all formal MSMEs. The findings show  that East 
Asia and the Pacific ha ve the highest overall number, though when weighted 
by the number of women in the region, Europe and Central Asia have the most. 
Based on either measure, South Asia has the least. 43 Formal women-owned 
MSMEs are well engaged in all sectors. They are more likely to have a larger 
presence in the retail and wholesale, and healthcare, beauty, and cosmetics 
sectors. They have close to equal footing in the tourist, transport, hotels and 
restaurants, services, and trade sectors, and a slightly lower presence in the 
manufacturing, agriculture, and construction sectors. 44  However, women -
owned and women-led enterprises face many challenges, most critical being 
limited access to finance. Other barriers include lack of business skills and 
access to networks. Strengthening capacity of women-owned/led MSMEs can 
be a source of economic empowerment for women.  
MSMEs employ women. A study by IFC shows that women constitute a fifth of the total workforce in the MSME 
sector.45 According to data available, the rate of women’s employment in registered MSMEs is 20.45 percent 
and 13.02 percent in unregistered  enterprises. 46 Disaggregated data across MSMEs shows that women’s 
employment, like ownership, is the highest in the case of micro enterprises, followed by small and then medium 
enterprises. 47 However, women are employed mostly in low -skilled jobs and face l ow wages, inappropriate 
working conditions, and an absence of social security, maternity benefits or sexual harassment provisions. 
Improving employment conditions of MSMEs can help to achieve women’s active economic participation to 
achieve the goal.  
Inclusive finance can bridge the gender gap. Financial inclusion can be a particularly powerful driver of gender 
equality. Eighty percent of women-owned businesses with credit needs are either unserved or underserved, a US 
$1.7 trillion financing gap .48 Women entrepreneurs, particularly those from rural poo r communities, are often  
disadvantaged in growing their business es, lacking land deeds and/or collateral needed to access formal 
sources of credit. Evidence shows that women are stronger savers than men,  more responsible borrowers and 
calculated risk -takers.  According to the Bank of New York Mellon, increasing women’s access to financial 
products and services could unlock $330 billion in annual global revenue. 49 Financial institutions, therefore, 
need to be incentivized to cater to women entrepreneurs. A good example is Women’s World Banking Capital 
Partners Fund, which is a private equity limited partnership that makes direct equity investments in women -
focused financial institutions. Their investment str ategy builds on the belief that investors can influence 
institutions to ensure that women clients are part of financial institutions’ growth strategy. Similarly, Asia Impact 
Investment Fund, co-founded by Credit Suisse, deploys capital in businesses that empower women.50