--- PAGE 2 ---
  
  
Authors 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
  
  
… 
01 
  
Ac 
knowledg 
ment 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
  
… 
… 
  
  
… 
  
02 
  
For 
ewor 
d  
by Dr VK Saraswat, Member, N 
ITI Aayog 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
  
  
… 
   
03 
  
Message by  
BVR Subramanyam, CEO NITI Aayog 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
   
  
  
… 
. 
04 
  
Message by  
I 
sh 
tiya 
que Ahmed 
,  
Senior Advisor, 
  
NITI 
  
Aayog 
… 
   
… 
  
.. 
05 
  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
  
  
  
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Disclaimer 
 
The information contained in this presentation is of a general nature and is not intended to 
address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to 
provide accurate and timely information. there can be no guarantee that such information is 
accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. NO 
one should act upon such information without appropriate professional advice after a 
thorough examination of the particular situation. Foundation for Economic Development 
(FED) has received no financial assistance from NITI Aayog. 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
The authors of this report would like to thank industry participants, Abhishek Dalal — CEO, 
ArSports Equipment. Ajay Srivastava — Founder. Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI), 
Anil Bhardwaj — Secretary General, FISME, Anuj Jain — CEO, Shingora Textiles, Ashish 
Chandra — Co-founder, GlobalFair, Ayush Jha — Tax and Customs Expert, GlobalFair, 
Chandrakant Salunkhe — President, SME Chamber of India, Geeta Goel — MD, India MSDF 
(Dell Foundation), Lokesh Kumar — General Manager, Exim Bank, Mithileshwar Thakur — 
Secretary General, AEPC, Prashant Seth — Joint Deputy Director General, FIEO, Rahul Taneja 
— Partner, Lightspeed Ventures, S Ganesh AGM — Direct Credit, SIDBI, Sanjay Bansal — 
Director General, DGCIS, Sanjeev Leekha — President, EPC - Leather, Vasundhara Singh — 
Policy and Partnerships, Etsy, Vinod Kumar — President, India SME Forum, Amazon Team 
and the ECGC Team for their valuable insights in the preparation of this report. 
 
We would also like to thank members from the ministry, Dr. Amiya Chandra Additional DGFT, 
KV Tinumala Joint DGFT, Kuldip Singh — Assistant Director, MSME, Mercy Epao Joint 
Secretary. MoMSME. U. C. Shukla Director (EP) — DC MSME, R. Ananth — Director CBIC, 
DOR, Reema Jain — Joint Director. DPIIT. Roshan Lal - Additional Director General, CBIC 
(Customs) and Surjith Karthikeya - Dy Secretary, Financial Services for their grounded 
perspective on the subject.  
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
  
  


--- PAGE 6 ---
 
  
  


--- PAGE 7 ---
 
  
  


--- PAGE 9 ---
MSMEs are often called the powerhouse of the Indian economy. MSMEs contribute significantly to 
employment generation, exports, and overall economic growth. They reportedly account for more than 
11 crore jobs1 and contribute around 27.0% of India's GDP2. According to estimates, the sector consists of 
around 6.4 crore MSMEs3, with 1.5 crore of them registered on the Udyam porta1 1 and employs around 
23.0% of the Indian labor force4, making it the second-largest employer in India after agriculture. They 
account for 38.4% of the total manufacturing output2 and contribute 45.03% of the country's total 
exports5. 
Exports represent an enormous and under-utilized opportunity for the MSME sector. Sectors where Indian 
MSMEs can participate and compete in export markets include handicrafts, handloom textiles, ayurveda 
and herbal supplements, leather goods, imitation jewellery and wooden products. Globally, these sectors 
constitute substantial markets exceeding USD 340 billion, whereas their domestic market is considerably 
smaller. 
Over time, small firms have encountered difficulties in tapping into export markets due to the inherent 
obstacles posed by economies of scale. It proves more challenging for small enterprises to enter foreign 
markets, adhere to compliance requirements, achieve cost-effective production, and efficiently manage 
logistics for clients. However, the emergence of both broad and niche e-commerce marketplaces 
addresses many of these barriers. By modifying our business environment to facilitate seamless exports 
through e-commerce platforms, coupled with addressing essential ease-of-doing-business factors, we 
have the potential to catalyze a radical transformation of our MSME sector into a formidable growth 
engine. 
In this report, we have six broad set of recommendations to boost MSME Exports: 
Create One Stop Information Channel for 
Exporters 
India has several portals that help exporters access information, most of which offer incomplete or 
outdated information. Therefore, creating a one stop information data intelligence portal using Al based 
interface will be essential to impart information to MSMEs. This portal shall answer all the queries of a 
potential exporter related to market such as tariffs, required paperwork, sources of finance, service 
providers, available incentives, and potential customers. This could be done under the Ministry of 
Commerce by enlisting a competent external vendor. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Udyam Dashboard 
PIB Press Release: Contribution of MSMEs and Cottage Industry to GDP 
NSS 73rd round, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, 
2015-16 Author's Calculation based on NSS 73rd round 
PIB Press Release: Contribution of MSMEs and Cottage Industry to GDP 
07 

--- PAGE 10 ---
Create National Trade Network (NTN) as 
Comprehensive Trade Portal 
Currently an exporter needs to navigate multiple portals to get necessary approvals. This includes the 
documentation for licenses and certification to actual receipt of payment in the bank account. The entire 
process is extremely cumbersome and requires navigating through several interfaces including the need 
for physical submission of documents. This difficulty can be eliminated by creating an end-to-end national 
trade portal (NTN) which will provide seamless experience to exporters including answering queries and 
resolution of any gaps in paperwork. This will help reduce the process burden as well as delay for MSME 
exporters and enable them to compete effectively. The Ministry of Commerce could form a task force to 
review the status of previous initiatives in this regard (e.g., SWIFT) and create a timebound program to 
implement a national trade network on par with the best in world. 
Promote E-commerce Exports 
Access to the market consistently emerges as a significant obstacle hindering MSME exports. Fortunately, 
a readily available solution to this issue is E-commerce. According to Global Trade Research Initiative's 
(GTRI) report, in 2022 MSMEs in China are already exporting goods worth over $200 bn through 
E-commerce platforms while India's e-commerce export is barely $2 bn. One key reason for this gap is the
cumbersome compliance process associated with exports, especially when it comes to payment
reconciliation, which is particularly challenging for a new or small exporter. To boost e-commerce exports,
it is essential to create distinction between Exporter on Record (EOR) and Seller on Record (SOR), allow
reduction in invoice value without any percentage ceiling for all e-commerce exports, introduce annual
financial reconciliation process for e-commerce exporters, exempt import duties on rejects / returns,
consider an exemption on reconciliation requirements for shipments up to $1000 until NTN is
implemented and creating a green channel clearance for e-commerce exports.
Promote Ease of Merchandise Exports 
While the government has placed high emphasis on improving Ease of Doing Business, it should be 
extended to exports processes, particularly targeted at MSME exporters. For example, MSMEs can be 
offered relaxation from certain compliance requirements for a period and forgiven on errors as they begin 
to learn requirements of export markets. On the other hand, a process must be created for time bound 
disbursement of incentives so that working capital is not blocked for MSMEs. 
Boosting Exports from MSMEs 08 

--- PAGE 11 ---
Improve Access to Export Finance 
Access to finance is regularly seen as a key bottleneck for MSMEs. Towards this end, promotion of Export 
Credit Guarantee can help improve working capital availability for MSMEs. The current uptake of ECGC 
schemes is only 10% and the government must create an incentive package to increase it to 50% or more. 
Finally, a single marketplace can be created, like in the case of higher education loans, where all providers 
of export credit can compete for business and help reduce the cost to MSMEs. 
Ensure Accurate Measurement 
Currently, a dependable single data source for MSME exports is lacking. The existing estimates of MSME 
exports are likely unreliable and almost certainly inflated, given that they rely on an outdated list of 
reserved sectors for MSMEs. Initiating any improvement requires accurate measurement and consistent 
tracking of impact. Establishing a reliable depiction of MSME exports involves integrating DGFT trade data 
with GST and income tax data. This fusion of datasets, utilizing PAN numbers as the common identifier, will 
provide an accurate portrayal of MSME exports. A key issue is reluctance to share information across 
government departments. To resolve this, a committee could be formed with representatives from DGFT 
as well as the finance ministry along with the MSME ministry to create a mechanism for sharing requisite 
information without compromising confidential data of individual firms. 
Overall, the potential of MSMEs to grow exports is enormous. This potential can be realized through some 
pragmatic measures which reduce the cost and friction of doing business for these firms. The measures 
proposed in this report can help boost MSME exports without placing any additional fiscal burden in the 
form of incentives or subsidies. This report employs a comprehensive research methodology combining 
secondary research and stakeholder analysis to achieve a thorough understanding of the subject. The 
secondary research phase involved an in-depth literature review and data collection from various data 
sources, including government publications and industry reports. Simultaneously, a stakeholder analysis 
was conducted, wherein relevant stakeholders were identified, and structured interviews were carried out 
to map their perspectives. The qualitative insights obtained from stakeholder interactions were 
integrated with the quantitative data derived from secondary research, to provide a holistic 
understanding of the subject. 
Boosting Exports from MSMEs 09 

--- PAGE 13 ---
In 2020, the Finance Ministry decided to change the definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
(MSMEs) because the low threshold limit in the old definition of MSMEs prevented them from expanding 
since they might lose certain benefits that MSMEs enjoy. The other change that has been introduced was 
to add turnover as another measure to define an MSME. 
Table 2.1: Revised Definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Parameters Micro Small Medium 
Investment in Plant and Machinery < 1 Crore INR < l0Crore lNR < 50 Crore INR 
Annual Turnover < 5 Crore INR < 50 Crore INR < 250 Crore INR 
No. of MSMEs (Based on NSS data) 6.3 Crore 3.3 Lakh 5 thousand 
No. of MSMEs 1.5 Crore 4.6 Lakh 41 thousand 
(Based on Udyam data as on 31st 
March 2023) 
Between FY 2019 and FY 2021, India witnessed a steep rise in the establishment of new MSMEs units. 
Around 40 lakh new Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) were established6. This remarkable 
growth can be attributed to the rising number of new micro-enterprises, which played a crucial role in 
driving the overall increase in the number of new MSMEs being established. 
Over the last 8 years, the share of MSME units engaged in manufacturing has grown by ~ 7%. Currently, 
around 38% of the total 54 lakh MSME units7 are engaged in manufacturing. 
Figure 2.1 provides an insight into the distribution of activity share among the categories of MSMEs. We 
clearly see that the bulk of manufacturing activity which is suitable for export is distributed largely 
amongst small and medium enterprises. 
• Manufacturing • Services
Source: Udyam Registration Publication 
Figure 2.1: Activity share of MSMEs across the three categories of MSME 
52% 
According to the 2020-21 Annual Report of the Ministry of MSMEs, the top five states with the highest 
concentration of manufacturing MSMEs are Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and 
Gujarat. 
06Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 
07Udyam Dashboard 
11 

--- PAGE 14 ---
A handful of firms are contributing to statistics reported from the MSME sector. According to NSS 
estimates in 2015, there were approximately 6.34 crore MSMEs in India. However, a closer examination of 
the sector's composition reveals a very skewed distribution. Out of the total 6.34 crore MSMEs, nearly 6.3 
crore are in fact microenterprises which have less than 20 workers and hence are outside most formal 
regulation (other than ESl)8• Only the rest of the 12.8 lakhs which are above the 20- worker threshold are 
therefore part of the formal system (e.g., PF system) 9• 
Among these ~13 lakh enterprises registered in the Provident Fund database, around 70,000 have 
revenues exceeding 5 crores, thereby crossing the threshold from the micro category to the small 
category. The remaining 9.3 lakhs, despite being formal enterprises with more than 20 workers, still fall 
under the micro segment in terms of revenue definition 10• 
The current policy landscape in India incentivizes MSMEs to remain dwarfs, hindering their ability 
to reap the benefits of economies of scale. For instance, the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA), 1947 
mandates companies to get permission from the Government before retrenchment of employees. This 
restriction is, however, applicable only to firms with more than 100 employees. This means that firms with 
less than 100 employees do not have to get permission from the government before firing their 
employees. 
Small businesses are indeed the primary beneficiaries of various policy initiatives and economic packages, 
aimed at providing support and fostering their development. However, these very incentives 
unintentionally create a disincentive for these businesses to surpass certain thresholds and expand their 
operations. As a result, MSMEs face significant challenges in capitalizing on the advantages offered by 
economies of scale. By staying small, they miss the potential cost savings, increased efficiency, and 
enhanced competitiveness that come with expanding their operations. The reluctance to grow beyond 
their initial size limits their ability to tap into larger markets, access better resources, and attract 
investments for innovation and expansion. 
Figure 2.2 compares India's market size to the global market size for MSME- Dominant industries. 
Contrary to popular belief, the domestic market size for these industries accounts for only 0-2% of 
the global market size 11. While India has a large population, a significant proportion of it is still 
economically disadvantaged, and thus has limited purchasing power. This means that the effective size of 
the Indian market is smaller despite its large population. High competition along with small 
market size isn't ideal growth environment for any manufacturing MSME. 
• Indian Market 
Size 
e Global Market 
Size 
Source: FED Analysis based on market reports 
Toys Leather 
Goods 
$991 
$756 
Handicrafts Readymade 
Garments 
Figure 2.2: Indian market size and global market size for the MSME dominated industries, in USO Billion 
08Note: ESI stands for Employee State Insurance. It is a contribution made by employees as well as employers to support employees to take 
part in self-financed, healthcare, insurance funds. 
09Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 
10Creating Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET) for Employment Generation and Scale-up in the MSME Sector 12 
11FED Analysis based on Market Reports 

--- PAGE 15 ---
Therefore, exporting is crucial for Indian MSMEs to break away from dwarfism and unlock their true 
growth potential. Exporting can allow 54 lakh manufacturing MSMEs to tap into new markets and 
expand their customer base, leading to an increased revenue and profit. Additionally, it helps businesses 
diversify their customer base and increase their revenues. Moreover, exporting can enhance a producer's 
reputation as a global player and a credible business partner, leading to increased visibility and 
marketability. 
Theoretically, India has a competitive advantage in exporting low skilled manufacturing products, 
but the country consistently underperformed. India's market size is on average less than 1 % of the 
Global market size for low skilled manufacturing exports even though Indian MSMEs are characterized by 
low skilled and labor-intensive manufacturing12• These manufacturing units employ approximately 10% of 
entire the Indian labor force13• Despite India's large working-age population (20% of the global 
working-age population 14) and significant employment in manufacturing MSMEs, its share of global
exports of low-skilled manufacturing products is only 5%15• 
Figure 2.3 is a scatter plot of non-high income countries which plots the share of low skilled 
manufacturing on the x axis and share of working age population on the y axis. Compared to India, 
Vietnam, Bangladesh, and China have a more disproportionate share of low-skilled goods exports given 
the size of their working age population. By unlocking MSMEs, we can boost our export share in 
low-skilled goods export. 
QI 
·.s
C: 
0 
� 
J: 
0 
z 
C: 
0 
"' 
Ill 
0 
0 
QI 
Ill 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 
Share of Working Age Population among Non-HIC countries 
Figure 2.3: Labor endowment and low skill manufacturing export performance of non- high-income countries 
Source: India's Export-Led Growth: Exemplar and Exception, Shoumitro Chatterjee and Arvind Subramanian, 2018 
Despite the opportunity for MSMEs to pursue exports, only 0.95% of MSME engage in it 16• Over 1.5
lakh units out of 1.58 crore registered MSMEs on the portal claimed to export their goods and services 7 7• 
Figure 2.4 showcases the distribution of MSMEs by annual turnover. It is worth noting that for a significant 
number of MSMEs, the annual turnover from exports is less than INR 1 crore. 
12KLEMS,2019-20,FED Analysis 
13Udyam Dashboard 
14 World Bank Estimate of Population ages 15-64 
15 India's Export-Led Growth: Exemplar and Exception, Shoumitro Chatterjee and Arvind Subramanian, 2018 
16 Udyam Registration Publication 
17 Udyam Dashboard 
13 

--- PAGE 60 ---
58
Appendix 
Table 1: Product categories well suited for MSME exports and subsequent size 
of global exports36 
Product Category Product HS Code Global Export 
Herbal 
Supplements and 
Ayurveda 
Products 
Essential oils, whether 
terpene less, incl. concretes 
and absolutes; resinoids 
3301 USD 6.06 Bn 
Ayurvedic products 3004901
1 
USD 7.08 Bn 
Total USD 13.14 
Bn 
Wood Products Furniture and parts thereof 
Wooden furniture for offices 
Wooden furniture 
Furniture of bamboo 
Total USD 152.89 
Bn 
Handicrafts Candles and the like 3406001
0 
USD 4.69 Bn 
Agarbatti and other 
odoriferous preparation 
which operate by burning 
330741 
Handbags of other materials 
excluding wicker 
420229 USD 1.11 Bn 
36 ITC Trade Data, 2021 

--- PAGE 61 ---
59
Parts of domestic decorative 
articles used as tableware 
and kitchenware 
442191 USD 0.94 Bn 
Handmade paper and 
paperboard of any size or 
shape 
480210 USD 0.10 Bn 
Lamps and lighting fittings 9405 USD 74.51 
Bn 
Dress materials hand 
printed: Of cotton and of 
various other fabrics 
6307 USD 27.4 Bn 
Total USD 109.25 
Bn 
Leather Products Handbags, whether with 
shoulder strap, including 
those without handle 
420221 USD 17.02 
Bn 
Articles of a kind normally 
carried in the pocket or in 
the handbag: Wallets 
420231 USD 4.4 Bn 
Articles of apparel and 
clothing accessories, of 
leather or composition 
leather 
4203 USD 7.50 Bn 
Total USD 28.92 
Bn 
Jewellery Imitation Jewellery 7117 USD 8.2 Bn 

--- PAGE 62 ---
60
Total Value of Global Exports in all categories USD 340.17 
Bn 
Table 2: Share of Indian exports in the identified product categories and 
potential for Indian exports in these categories37 
Product Product Indian 
Export 
India’s 
Share 
Unrealised 
Potential 
Herbal 
Supplements 
and Ayurveda 
Products 
Essential oils, whether 
terpene less, incl. concretes 
and absolutes; resinoids 
USD 0.07 
Bn 
16% USD 5.08 
Bn 
Ayurvedic products USD 0.17 
Bn 
2.5% USD 7.08 
Bn 
Total USD 1.14 
Bn 
USD 12.17 
Bn 
Wood 
Products 
Furniture and parts thereof USD 1.38 
Bn 
1% USD 
113.18 Bn 
Wooden furniture for offices USD 0.06 
Bn 
1% USD 4.5 Bn 
Wooden furniture USD 0.85 
Bn 
3% USD 32.74 
BN 
Furniture of bamboo USD 0.00 
Bn 
0% USD 0.23 
Bn 
Total USD 2.29 
Bn 
USD 150.6 
Bn 
37 ITC Trade Data, 2021 

--- PAGE 63 ---
61
Handicrafts Candles and the like USD 0.08 
Bn 
2% USD 4.61 
Bn 
Agarbatti and other 
odoriferous preparation 
which operate by burning 
USD 0.16 
Bn 
31% USD 0.34 
Bn 
Handbags of other materials 
excluding wicker 
USD 0.01 
Bn 
2% USD 1.09 
Bn 
Parts of domestic decorative 
articles used as tableware 
and kitchenware 
USD 0.07 
Bn 
8% USD 0.84% 
Handmade paper and 
paperboard of any size or 
shape 
USD 0.01 
Bn 
11% USD 0.09 
Bn 
Lamps and lighting fittings USD 0.24 
Nb 
0% USD 
74.27Bn 
Dress materials hand 
printed: Of cotton and of 
various other fabrics 
USD 0.47 2% USD 26.93 
Bn 
Total USD 1.05 
Bn 
USD 108.2 
Bn 
Leather 
Products 
Handbags, whether with 
shoulder strap, including 
those without handle 
USD 0.35 
Bn 
2% USD 16.67 
Bn 
Articles of a kind normally 
carried in the pocket or in 
the handbag: Wallets 
USD 0.35 
Bn 
8% USD 4.11 
BN 

--- PAGE 64 ---
62
Articles of apparel and 
clothing accessories, of 
leather or composition 
leather 
USD 0.68 
Bn 
9% USD 6.82 
Bn 
Total USD 1.38 
Bn 
USD 27.6 
Bn 
Handloom 
Textiles 
Woven fabrics of silk or of 
silk waste; Of Handloom 
USD 0.01 
Bn 
10% USD 0.11 
Bn 
Woven fabrics of combed 
wool or of combed fine 
animal hair; Of Handloom 
USD 0.00 
Bn 
1% USD 0.11 
Bn 
Carpets, rugs and mats of 
handloom 
USD 0.07 
Bn 
2% USD 3.83 
Bn 
Cotton durries of handloom 
(including chindi durries, 
cotton chenille durries, Rag 
Rug durries, printed durries, 
druggist) 
USD 0.41 
Bn 
15% USD 2.3 Bn 
Scarves of Silk, Handloom; 
Shawls, scarves, mufflers, 
mantillas, veils and the like; 
of silk and silk waste; Of 
Handloom 
USD 0.03 
Bn 
5% USD 0.58 
Bn 
Gloves, mittens, and mitts; 
Of handloom 
USD 0.04 
Bn 
3% USD 1.12 
Bn 
Bed sheets and bed covers, 
of cotton, Handloom 
USD 0.7 
Bn 
57% USD 0.51 
Bn 

--- PAGE 65 ---
63
Other bed linen, printed: of 
cotton: Handloom 
USD 0.12 
Bn 
6% USD 2.04 
Bn 
Embroidery on a textile 
fabric ground, in the piece, 
in strips or in motifs 
USD 0.2 
BN 
11% USD 1.54 
Bn 
Total USD 1.58 
Bn 
USD 12.1 
Bn 
Jewellery Imitation Jewellery USD 0.16 
Bn 
2% USD 8.2 
Bn 
Total Value of Indian Exports in all the 
categories 
USD 7.6 
Bn 
USD 
318.87 Bn 
Table 3: Initiatives to support access to finance 
Initiative Description 
Credit Guarantee 
Scheme for MSME – I & 
II 
• It provides credit guarantee to MSMEs up- to Rs.
2 crores (which was Rs. 1 crore), per borrowing unit
from a single lending institution.
• All proposals for sanction of guaranteed approvals
for credit facilities above Rs.50 lakh and up-to
Rs.200 lakh will have to be rated internally by the
MLI and should be of investment grade.
• Discounted interest rate loan.
• Guarantee cover for 5 years, against a one-time
guaranteed fees and an annual service fee,
depending on the loan amount and
geographical region.
• The scheme provides flexibility in repayment, and
MSMEs can choose from various repayment

--- PAGE 66 ---
64
options such as monthly, quarterly, or half-yearly 
instalments 
Interest Equalisation 
Scheme (IES) 
• Provides interest rate subsidy of 2-3%, to
exporters for pre- and post-shipment credit. This
scheme focuses on manufacturers in certain MSME
focused sector.
Credit Guarantee 
Scheme for 
Subordinate Debt 
• Promoter(s) of the MSMEs are given credit equal
to 50% of their stake (equity plus debt) or Rs. 75
lakh whichever is lower.
• Debt - 90% guarantee coverage would come from
scheme/ Trust (CGTMSE) and remaining 10% from
the concerned promoter(s).
• 1.50% per annum on the guaranteed amount on
outstanding basis, as guarantee fee to be borne by
the exporter.
• There can be a moratorium of 7 years (maximum)
on the payment of principal. However, interest will
be paid as and when applied.
• Ease in repayment, after completion of moratorium
period, principal shall be fully repaid within the tenor
of loan (as per sanction) in form of Principal Equally
Distributed (PED)
Export Credit Re-
Financing (ECR) 
• ECR is a scheme, by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) to provide short-term credit to banks and
financial institutions for export credit at the
prevailing repo rate under the Liquidity Adjustment
Facility (LAF)
• Scheduled Banks extend this facility at Repo Rate
and adding a Credit Risk Premium and Spread
close to 3-4%.

--- PAGE 67 ---
65
• The scheme aims to increase the availability of
credit to exporters and to support export
growth.
Table 4: Initiatives to support market access 
Initiative Description 
Market Access Initiative 
(MAI) 
• Reimbursement regarding participation support
to the regular Director/Partner/Proprietor or a
regular officer of the company on senior managerial
position, except a foreign national, in terms of flight
ticket reimbursement.
• Provided to the maximum of three MAI events in a
year, per member participant company.
• Support to conduct Market and Research
Studies, Joint Events, Reverse Buyer-Seller Meet
(RBSMs).
• Support to upgrade marketing and branding
ability for the MSMEs.
• Capacity Building Support of Exports, in terms
of Standards, Regulations, etc.
International 
Cooperation Scheme 
• Reimbursement for MSMEs in participation in
international exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-
seller meet in foreign countries (physical and
virtual) for space rent, up to 100% with the
maximum of Rs. 1.00 lakh or actual rent paid,
whichever is lower (for one representative from
each participating enterprise).
• Deputation of MSME Business Delegations to
foreign countries, which includes Air Fare, and

--- PAGE 68 ---
66
Duty Allowance of up to $150 per day on 
reimbursement basis, which includes export 
promotion organisation as well as other MSMEs. 
Procurement and 
Marketing Support 
(PMS) 
• Participation of Individual MSEs in domestic
Exhibition/ Trade Fair
• Developing capacity of MSMEs in Development of
Marketing Haats, adoption of modern packaging
technique, bar code and e-commerce platform
• Organizing events like Domestic Trade Fair&
Exhibition/ Awareness programs/ National &
International Workshops & Seminars/ Vendor
• Development Programs. Development of retail
outlet
Table 5: Initiatives to create a favorable business environment 
Initiative Description 
Scheme of Fund for 
Regeneration of 
Traditional Industries 
(SFURTI) 
• The financial assistance provided for a specific
project has a ceiling of Rs. 2.5 crore for Regular
Cluster (up to 500 artisans) and a ceiling of Rs.
5 crores for Major Cluster (more than 500
artisans)
• Aims to organize traditional industries and
artisans into collectives by increasing production
and value addition to make products competitive
• Setting up of production facility with latest
machinery.
• Build general awareness, counselling, skill
development and capacity building, exposure

--- PAGE 69 ---
67
visits, market development initiatives, design 
and product development, etc. 
• Creation of common facility centres, raw material
banks, upgradation of production infrastructure,
warehousing facility, tools and technological
upgradation, etc.
• Marketing connects and Brand Building, e -
commerce, and Exposure Visits.
Micro & Small 
Enterprises Cluster 
Development 
Programme (MSE-CDP) 
• Creating Common Facility Centers including
Plug & Play Facilities.
• Support for Flatted Factory Complexes and
Infrastructure Development Projects.
• Assistance up to 80% of the maximum project
cost of Rs. 30 crores  for creation of Common
Facility Centre such as common
production/processing center, design center,
testing facilities including plug and play facilities
• Assistance up to 70% of the maximum Project
cost of Rs. 15 crores for development of land,
roads, drainage, power distribution etc. in
new/existing industrial (multi -product)
areas/estates/Flatted Factory Complex
Trade Infrastructure for 
Export Scheme 
• The Central Government helps with
infrastructure development in the form of grant -
in-aid, wherein they contribute approximately
50% of the total equity in the project. However,
in NE and Hill States, including the Union
Territory of J&K and Ladakh, this contribution
increases to 80%.

--- PAGE 70 ---
68 
• Furthermore, in states that have relatively poor
export infrastructure and lack institutional
capacity for preparing good Detailed Project
Reports (DPRs), but possess positive export
potential, the grant can reach up to 80% of the
total equity.
• The maximum limit for grant -in-aid is set at Rs.
20 crore per infrastructure project, excluding the
cost of land.
• Priority will be given to infrastructure projects
that involve significant contributions from
stakeholders and bank financing. In states with
comparatively better export infrastructure and
institutional capacity, Public -Private Partnership
(PPP) projects w ill be encouraged to leverage
the funds under the Trade Infrastructure for
Export Scheme (TIES) optimally.
Town and Export 
Excellence 
• Recognized associations of units in Towns of
Export Excellence can avail financial assistance
under Market Access Initiative (MAI) scheme, on
priority basis, for export promotion projects for
marketing, capacity building and technological
services.
• Common Service Providers in the Towns of
Export Excellence are entitled for Authorisation
under Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG)
Scheme
One District One 
Product (ODOP) / 
District Export Cluster 
• Aimed at decentralizing the export promotion
initiative to state/UT and district level, with
convergence of ongoing schemes at district
level.

--- PAGE 71 ---
69
• Providing Capital Investment support to existing
micro-enterprises, with preference to enterprises
producing ODOP products. With new units,
supported only for ODOP products only.
• Extending of Infrastructure support for Marketing
and Branding. If marketing and branding are
being conducted at the state or regional level,
other products would also be supported.
• Branding and Marketing support through grants
of up to 50% of total expenditure, for the state or
regional level ODOP product, to SHGs, co -
operatives, etc. Branding and marketing are
crucial for the growth of Micro Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSME).
• Extension of Subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri
Formalisation of Micro Food Processing
Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme with the ODOP
approach where a credit-linked capital subsidy
comprising 35% of the eligible project cost, up
to Rs. 10 lakh (US$ 13,379.7) may be provided
where the beneficiary may need to contribute at
least 10% of the amount and the balance as a
bank loan.
• Providing a credit-linked grant of 35% to support
groups such as self -help groups (SHGs),
Producer Co-operatives, etc. for operations such
as sorting, grading, storage, packaging,
processing and so on.
• Extension of Seed Capital fund of Rs. 40,000
(US$ 535.2) per SHG member involved in food
processing, for working capital and buying small
tools.

--- PAGE 72 ---
70
• Providing entrepreneurship focused Training for
entrepreneurship development, operations,
marketing, accounting, FSSAI standards, GST
registration, Udyog Aadhaar, Geographical
Indication (GI) registration and so on.
Furthermore, training designed for ODOP
products is provided on hygiene, storage,
packaging and development of new products.
Such training helps the entrepreneurs conduct
business operations efficiently and improve
product quality.
Table 6: Schemes that reduce the cost of serving the international markets 
Initiative Description 
Export Promotion 
Capital Goods Scheme 
• The EPCG license offers financial assistance to
exporters by eliminating import charges.
• Under the EPCG Scheme, duty-free imports of
goods are allowed if the exporter fulfils an
export obligation six times the amount of duty
savings on capital goods within a span of six
years.
• Once the EPCG License is obtained, it must be
registered at the designated port of entry to be
eligible for duty waivers when submitting the Bill
of Entry.
• For exporters with shipments valued below ₹1
crore, compliance also entails providing a bond
or bank guarantee. The bond must be furnished
at the customs port for exporters with exports

--- PAGE 73 ---
71
exceeding ₹1 crore, while a bank guarantee is 
not mandatory. 
• Early redemption is permitted as an incentive
for fast-track enterprises to boost exports. If the
license holder has fulfilled 75% or more of the
specific export obligation and 100% of the
average export requirement, if any, in less than
50% of the original term, the remaining export
obligation will be waived.
Duty Drawback Scheme • Drawback allowed up-to two years from the date
of import.
• Partial redemption of the paid duty, to be a
certain percentage, where the identity of the
goods is clearly defined by the authorised
personnel from the Customs.
• Redemption percentage dependent on the time
after the goods are imported.
Remission of Duties 
and Taxes on Exported 
Products (RoDTEP) 
Scheme 
• Refund of Duties/Taxes at Central, State and
Local Level.
• Refund includes indirect taxes on goods and
services used in the production of the exported
product.
Table 7: Initiatives to simplify and fast track certain aspects of export 
procedure  
Initiative Description 
Liberalized Indian AEO 
(Authorized Economic 
• Internationally recognised certificate• Internationally recognised certificate• Internationally recognised certificate

--- PAGE 74 ---
72
Operator) Program for 
MSMEs 
• Granting of AEO status within only 15 days
from electronic submission of complete
documents for AEO Tier T1.
• Swifter Customs clearance for accredited
stakeholders in the global supply chain viz.
importers, exporters, logistic service providers,
custodians etc.
• Bank Guarantee up- to 50%, 75%, and 100%
respectively for T1, T2, and T3.
• The facility of Direct Port Delivery (DPD) of
imported containers, Direct Port Entry (DPE) of
their Export Containers, high level of facilitation
in customs clearance of their consignments
thereby ensuring shorter cargo release time.
• Exemption from Bank guarantees, priority for
refund/ rebate/ duty Drawback, as well as a
Client Relationship Manager at the customs
port as a single point of interaction.
• Deferment of payment of Customs duty i.e., it is
not required to paid before the clearance of the
imported goods by Customs.
Status Holder 
Certification 
• Authorisation and customs clearances for both
imports and exports on self-declaration basis.
• Bank Guarantee up-to 100%.
• Allowance of Export of free-of-cost samples,
without any duties, subject to certain annual
limits.
• Submission of paperless declaration without
any supporting document.

--- PAGE 75 ---
73
• Status Holder Certification is categorised
across 5 categories denoted with stars, based
on their export values (FOB/FOR) in 2 out of 4
years, with USD 3 million, 15 million, 50 million,
200 million, and 800 million for 1 star, 2-star, 3-
star, 4 star and 5 stars, respectively.
• Input-output norms are fixed on priority basis,
within 60 days by the Norms Committee.
Advanced 
Authorisation 
• No advanced duty payments at the time of
import, which includes duties like Basic Custom
Duty, Additional Custom Duty, Education Cess,
Anti-Dumping Duty, Countervailing Duty,
Safeguard Duty, and Transition Product Specific
Safeguard Duty.
73