--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-104-C29
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-104
Page Range: Page 9
Word Range: 7271 - 7520
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 9]
Xue et al. 10.3389/fsufs.2025.1649834
Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems 09 frontiersin.org
presence while also promoting long-term environmental, social, and 
economic sustainability ( Rui and Sundram, 2024 ; Odimarha 
et al., 2024).
5.4 Local food systems and supply chain 
flexibility
By shortening supply chains, forming farmer cooperatives, and 
engaging in urban agriculture, local and regional food systems are 
strengthened with a view to increasing resilience and sustainability, 
lessening dependence on global networks, as well as enhancing 
nutritional stability in areas like the UAE (Sharma et al., 2023). The 
COVID-19 pandemic underscores that managing interruptions 
strategically starts with a careful assessment of options available in 
supply chain design and flexibility. Supplier diversification and 
multiple procurement are strategies that can help manage disruption 
effects by reducing the chances of reliance on a single source (Tomlin, 
2006; Saghafian and Van Oyen, 2016 ). Effective inventory 
management strategies, like positional strategies, help reduce risks 
in the supply chain. Techniques such as Risk Exposure Index (REI) 
and Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR) can identify the optimal 
inventory layout (Gao et al., 2019). The transition from food services 
to food retail demands readjustments within the agricultural product 
supply network, since interruptions could occur ( Tomlin, 2006; 
Hobbs, 2021). By investing in strategies like flexible sourcing and 
multiple delivery locations, supply chain issues can be  resolved. 
Reliability of AFSC can be  further improved with supplier 
diversification. Also, strategic inventory management will help 
enhance agricultural food supply chain resilience. Building on the 
earlier points about the importance of flexibility and strategic 
management in supply chains, investing in automation, digitization, 
and online deliveries will be  key to strengthening resilience and 
lessen dependence on global networks ( Hobbs, 2021 ). These 
technologies can directly address the vulnerabilities as discussed 
before, like disruptions in supply chains, by boosting efficiency, 
enabling real-time monitoring, and increasing adaptability within 
agricultural food systems. These shifts, if properly implemented, 
might be a game-changer in tackling future disruptions.
5.5 Collaborative education and capacity 
building
The importance of public-private partnerships is to use resources, 
share infrastructure, and plan for the long-term disruptions a 
man-made or natural disaster can cause, to increase robustness as well 
as efficiency of AFSC (Gabler et al., 2017). It is especially important 
that there be public-private cooperation in urban water distribution 
design. Regional cooperation between public utilities can contribute 
to enhancing the reliability along with financial stability of the water 
provision (Gold et al., 2022). Collaborating with public authorities and 
private enterprises, alongside global cooperation and capacity 
building, may enhance food supply resilience by improving access to 
FIGURE 3
Technological interventions in the agri-food supply chain.