--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-104-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-104
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1866 - 2115
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 3]
Xue et al. 10.3389/fsufs.2025.1649834
Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems 03 frontiersin.org
upcoming interdisciplinary studies. Finally, Section 8 wraps up with 
an overview of findings and provides policy suggestions to enhance 
the resilience and sustainability of global AFSCs.
2 Structure and complexity of AFSCs
The first stage in AFSC is the procurement of input materials, (Stage 
1—Inputs; Figure 1). This includes seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals, and 
farming equipment, which serve as the foundation for agricultural 
production. The second stage (Stage 2—Farm) is the food production 
stage, involving cultivation, harvesting, and animal husbandry. This stage 
corresponds to “Farm” in Figure 1 and plays a central role in determining 
the overall sustainability of the supply chain. Environmental and social 
aspects such as soil health, water consumption, fertilizer emissions, 
biodiversity conservation, and fair labor practices, are key considerations 
at this stage. Technology also contributes to improving agricultural 
efficiency and minimizing resource waste through precision farming and 
smart monitoring systems. The third stage (Stage 3—Processing) is the 
production of finished products through processing, value addition, and 
packaging of the raw materials. One crucial aspect of this stage is to align 
balance between demand and supply (Rathor et al., 2022). Technology is 
crucial for increasing production efficiencies and decreasing resource 
waste (Chiang et al., 2021). The fourth stage (Stage 4—Distribution) is 
the transportation of finished products from production sites to the 
warehouses for temporary storage or timely distribution (Rathor et al., 
2022). As indicated in Figure 1, this stage encompasses storage, transport, 
and cold-chain logistics. This stage considers environmental, social, and 
economic factors to achieve sustainable as well as responsible supply 
chain characteristics (Hou et al., 2015). For example, environmental 
dimensions may include reducing carbon emissions from transportation, 
improving energy efficiency, and adopting cleaner logistics solutions. 
Inventory management is crucial for reducing warehouse holding costs 
and efficient order delivery. The fifth stage (Retail and Consumers) 
involves order fulfillment. This stage involves picking and shipping 
products to either retailers or consumers. The speed and accuracy of this 
stage greatly impacts consumer satisfaction (Rathor et al., 2022). It also 
connects closely to consumer feedback mechanisms and demand drivers, 
as reflected in Figure 1. Advanced tools like internet of things (IoT), 
artificial intelligence (AI), and blockchain help minimize disruptions in 
the distribution network. These technologies also support earlier stages, 
such as farming and processing, by improving traceability, monitoring 
production efficiency, and ensuring sustainability compliance. IoT 
enables real-time tracking to prevent losses, AI optimizes 
FIGURE 1
Structure of the agri-food supply chain.