--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-RES-104-C22
Parent Doc ID: A-RES-104
Page Range: Page 7
Word Range: 5521 - 5770
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 7]
Xue et al. 10.3389/fsufs.2025.1649834
Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems 07 frontiersin.org
economic conditions ( Ortmann and King, 2010 ). Small farmers 
without financial buffers were hard hit by external shocks. Farmers 
help build overall resilience capacity of AFSC, but they tend to 
be  viewed as the least resilient ones in AFSC ( Zhao et  al., 2022). 
We need to tackle the susceptibility of small farmers in order to ensure 
their resilience and the sustainability of AFS. Strategies like developing 
alternative food networks, promoting collective action, and using 
digital technology can help reduce these vulnerabilities (Ortmann and 
King, 2010; Belhadi et al., 2024). As per Karunarathna et al. (2023), 
supply of agricultural inputs, loans, and subsidies by the government 
may lead to stabilization and sustaining of small farmer operations.
4.2 Export-oriented economies
AFSC depends on global markets for its inputs and outputs, which 
makes domestic economies more vulnerable. This can be seen in Ghana’s 
cocoa and Malaysia’s palm oil sectors. The pandemic has shown these 
weaknesses in the sector (Tan et al., 2023). Because of this reliance on 
global markets, food supply and demand might become unbalanced. At 
the same time, that reliance can create opportunities for resilience. 
Traders are critical to linking corporate sustainability targets to real-
world impacts in food supply chains (Grabs and Carodenuto, 2021). 
Through better global connections, risks coming from market 
dependency can be  reduced. To address the challenges of AFSC 
dependency, countries should develop supply chains with resilience by 
innovation, early warning mechanism and a middle path between global 
participation and domestic food security measures (Manikas et al., 2022; 
Joshi et  al., 2023). The financial and industrial limits in developing 
regions make it hard to implement advanced infrastructure. These areas 
face challenges not just with limited capital and outdated infrastructure, 
but also with a shortage of skilled labor and the time-consuming need to 
train the workforce to manage new technologies properly. Furthermore, 
applying digital technologies including approaches such as ‘ Agri-Food 
4.0’ can contribute to lowering food waste, enable real-time tracking, and 
support scalability (Dadi et al., 2021). Using IoT, big data, and blockchain 
can assist in establishing traceability and enhancing the efficiency of 
AFSC systems in developing regions. However, a major challenge for 
many countries is securing substantial investment for infrastructure 
development, especially in rural areas with limited access to energy, 
internet, and logistics, compounded by a lack of financial resources and 
technical expertise (Bhat et al., 2021; Ahmadzadeh et al., 2023).
4.3 Impact on food prices and household 
budgets
As highlighted in the introduction, food security encompasses not 
only the availability of food but also its access, stability, and utilization. 
The rise in food costs has impacted family budgets and nutritional 
stability, especially for vulnerable groups in low-income nations. A 50% 
hike in food price leads to a reduction of 5–15% in energy intake and 
a cut of 10–30% in iron intake, depending on income effects (Bouis 
et al., 2011). In India, the rise in food costs brings a higher likelihood 
of children becoming malnourished. The rate of emaciation in children, 
for example, rose from 18.8% in 2006 to 28.0% in 2009 (Vellakkal et al., 
2015). When shortages arise, families switch to cheaper brands, 
purchase larger quantities and plant vegetable gardens. Shortages can 
affect food quality and variety, especially for the poor and female 
headed households. As noted by Welch and Graham (2000) , 
malnutrition is not only a result of agricultural inefficiencies but also 
of poverty, which is a critical barrier to achieving food security. It is 
necessary to act on these angles simultaneously to give us food security 
and nutrition (which includes health) through agricultural production 
and food systems (Welch and Graham, 2000; Haddad, 2000).
5 Mitigation and risk management 
approaches
5.1 Policy and governance solutions
The agricultural food supply chain can experience reduced risk 
and disruption through policy and governance solutions, provided 
by the farm, Table 2. According to Charlebois et al. (2024) , food 
security, regulatory frameworks, emergency plans, and digital 
FIGURE 2
Systematic vulnerabilities in agri-food systems.