--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 56 to Page 61
Word Range: 13481 - 14857
Word Count: 1,377
--------------------

[Page 56]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
56 
• Combat illegal trade in fishery products and other illicit activities that could be 
taking place. 
• Fulfil the legal requirements of fishing activity, market demands and 
international sustainable fishing standards. 
• Improve fishing regulations through better information of the supply chain and 
a greater transparency in the sea. 
MPEDA enables traceability through its export facilitation certificates. For the sea 
caught species, Catch certificate is issued and the type of certificate is categorised 
based on the export market such as EU or Non -EU. With regard to shrimp exports to 
the USA, DS -2031 certificate is issued to declare that the shrimps were caught in a 
manner not harmful to the turtles or were harvested from aquaculture. ICCAT is a 
specialised certificate for Tuna species. These certificates are the most sought after by 
the exporters which is also an indication of the direction of trade for India.   
Presently, for facilitating traceability of aquaculture products, MPEDA is implementing 
hatchery/farm enrolment with pond-wise geographical data. 
Figure 15: Distribution of Export Facilitation Certificates (2017-2020) 
 
Source: MPEDA Annual Reports (2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20) 
All respondents found it easy to apply for export facilitation certificates. They got the 
certificate within 24 hours. They found the MPEDA officials to be supportive. 
Exporters experience delay in getting certificates from E xport Inspection Council, EIC 
(Health certificate). 18% of the respondents found accessing the certificates over the 
weekend difficult. 
20670
31
15108
767 49
9882
730
16900
1038 127
9051
358
19454
976 124
Catch-EU Catch Non-EU DS-2031 (USA) ICCAT Certificate of
Origin
2017-18 2018-19 2019-20

[Page 57]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
57 
5.2.5.3  Farming clusters 
More than 90% of Indian shrimp farmers belong to small -scale or marginal category 
with operational holdings of less than two hectare per individual. National Centre for 
Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA) was established by MPEDA as an outreach 
organization for uplifting the livelihood of small-scale shrimp farmers by helping them 
form societies and educating them about the better management practices (BMP) for 
safe and sustainable shrimp farming. Respondents found the MPEDA and NaCSA 
officials to be supportive and engaging. They also found the trainings offered to them 
useful.  
Farming clusters aimed for the members to be able to reduce the production cost 
through efficient use of resources, avoiding unwanted chemicals and antibacterial 
agents, and sharing of expenses for developing infrastructure such as deepening of 
canals, seed testing, transportation of inputs, lab, electricity etc. Respondents informed 
that they were not able to procure seeds and feeds from a single entity to bargain for 
a better price.  
Societies facilitate access to institutional finance and insurance. It is a source for linking 
the farmers with processors and exporters for better market access and price. 
However, the benefits of getting better market price or improved market access have  
not been fully realised as all the respondents informed that the market price is 
determined by the agents or exporters who come to procure their shrimps.  
Societies formed by farmers belonging to Scheduled Castes reported that they were 
unable to access institutional credit timely and hence, were unable to fully utilise the 
benefits of the financial assistance scheme within the advance approval period. 
5.2.6 Export oriented aquaculture technology incubation  
Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) is a Research & Development arm of 
MPEDA for diversified aquaculture. The technology developed by RGCA is in 
commercial mode and the deliverable will be extended to the needy farmers & 
entrepreneurs in India and a broad under Technology Transfer agreement. RGCA is 
seen as Aquaculture Technology Incubation Centre of MPEDA to promote aquaculture 
of commercial species for export purposes.

[Page 58]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
58 
Figure 16: Key focus areas of RGCA 
 
Source: RGCA Activities document shared on 11 Aug 2023 
Below table summarises the quantum of seeds distributed for the species promoted 
under species diversification project 
Table 14: Distribution of seeds for species diversification by RGCA since inception of the projects 
Species Particulars Quantity 
Seabass Total number of seed supplied (from 
2000) 
25.8 million 
No. of beneficiaries 3007 
Area promoted 4251 Ha (0.5/m2) 
Mudcrab Total number of crab-instar/crablets 
supplied 
9.2 million 
No. of beneficiaries 1049 
Area promoted 1803 Ha 
GIFT Total number of seed/brood-fry 
supplied 
All male seed: 43.65 million 
  Brood-fry: 51,728 nos. 
No. of beneficiaries 531 
Area promoted 1778.5 Ha 
Artemia Artemia biomass & Cyst supplied Biomass: 7834 Kg 
  Cysts: 2,762 Tins 
No. of beneficiaries 569 
Source: RGCA Activities document shared on 11 Aug 2023

[Page 59]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
59 
Respondents have purchased seeds of GIFT Tilapia, Pearlspot, Mudcrab and Seabass. 
The demand for Mudcrab seeds in the east coast is higher than the present supply. 
Main challenges in commercial adoption include timely availability and sufficient 
quantity of seeds for culture and relatively lower market price compared to shrimps. 
Respondents wanted more technical guidance from RCGA for commercial adoption.  
RGCA has also signed MoU with state Governments and private entrepreneurs on 
transfer of technology for establishment of hatcheries for diversified species. 
5.3 Problems/Hurdles in the implementation of the 
Scheme 
Common challenges found in the implementation of the scheme are related to securing 
supporting documents, processing time of application and engagement frequency with 
the beneficiaries.  
• Delay in allocating funds for disbursement to beneficiaries for the SFC period.   
• Documents to be sourced from multiple departments from the state 
government and local body which delays the collection of documents to be 
submitted for availing financial assistance.  
• New exporters require more hand holding in terms of presenting the required 
documents and invoices in the prescribed formats. For some of them this has 
led to lapsing of the extended period of the advance approval. They also require 
support in being referr ed to reliable buyers to avoid changes in the quotation 
post receipt of advance approval.  
• Large number of documents to be verified especially for financial assistance 
causing delay in processing applications with limited manpower at the Head 
office and field offices.  
• Online portal is not user-friendly to help officials verify and validate documents 
and invoices.  
• Application forms are not in local or regional language making applicants 
dependent on MPEDA officials to clarify and complete the application.  
• Lack of a monitoring and decision-making tool for the MPEDA officials to track 
the progress of scheme disbursals and other performance metrics or 
deliverables.  
• The structure of MPEDA is functionally organized into administrative sections, 
there is limited formal flow of information and data among the sections leading 
to the schemes and programs being implemented as a standalone activity.

[Page 60]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
60 
5.4 Analysis of user friendliness of online portal 
Based on heuristic evaluation framework, e -mpeda portal was assessed for its user -
friendliness.

[Page 61]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
61 
Portal related Issues reported by beneficiaries: 
• Network issues 
• Server issues 
• File size limit to upload not sufficient.  
New feature requests from beneficiaries 
• Dashboard view  
• Eligible schemes and programs to be alerted on the portal itself. 
• MPEDA wallet facility so that money can be deposited in bulk and consumed 
as per need and avoiding the hassle of OTP for each transaction.  
• Improve browser compatibility. 
5.5 Key takeaways 
The key takeaways from the beneficiary survey have been summarised below as: 
 
• Financial Assistance Schemes were aligned with the 
beneficiary needs, market demands and global value chain 
of fisheries and aquaculture. 
• 100% of respondents have reported that the scheme was 
crucial for development in marine products exports. 
 
• The e-mpeda portal has a score of 60% on user-
friendliness assessed based on heuristic evaluation which 
leads to sub-optimal performance. 
• Only 30-35% respondents found the online application 
easy to use. 
• About 50% of the respondents found the assistance 
amount adequate. 
• 70% of the respondents who participated in international 
fairs found support extended by MPEDA adequate. 
• 100% of respondents found the MPEDA officials 
supportive and responsive. 
 
• Respondents of financial assistance scheme have 
reported an increase in productivity and turnover. 
Monitoring beyond the obligation period to capture the 
long-term impact is not available. 
Relevance
Efficiency
Effectiveness