--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C59
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 70 to Page 72
Word Range: 17037 - 17286
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 70]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
70 
• Adaptive scheme implementation approach to accommodate 
implementation challenges at state level. 
• Leverage training programs as lead generators for different financial 
assistance schemes and technical guidance converting training to 
production line.  
• Help reduce the mismatch in expectations between beneficiaries and 
MPEDA   
Priority High

[Page 71]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
71 
6.2.2  Delegation of authority for evaluation of scheme 
proposals to RD 
Context • During the evaluation period, the scheme related proposals from 
exporters and farmers move from S ub-Regional Division (SRD) to 
Regional Division (RD) to HQ through iterative evaluation process 
leading to multiple review and validation at different levels causing 
significant duplication of evaluation process. 
• At present, the e-mpeda portal is only 60% effective in delivering 
online evaluation process leading to physical movement of 
documents to HQ, multiple validation, and scrutiny of documents 
along the administrative chain leading to delay and bandwidth 
constraint at all levels. 
Action 
Points 
• Modalities of delegation of power to be decided by committee. 
• Redesign of portal to support online evaluation of proposals 
submitted by exporters and farmers. 
• Decentralized document evaluation at zonal level may be 
established to ensure process compliance before the final decision 
can be taken at appropriate level. 
Priority High

[Page 72]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
72 
6.3 System and Process 
6.3.1  Augmenting human resources for effective functioning of 
MPEDA 
Context • The total sanctioned strength of MPEDA has been revised from 
420 to 250 combining the Head Office and Field Offices based on 
the restructuring proposal of the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry.  
• At present, the number of  resources in position is only 181 
including 11 officials on deputation. The existing staff is not  
adequate to meet the growth objective of the sector.  
• There are 66 vacant posts for technical positions in aquaculture, 
export promotion and quality control. 
Action 
Points 
• Approval to the restructuring proposal of MPEDA and p rioritize 
recruitment of all the vacant positions for better functioning of the 
authority to support the sector. 
• Make capacity building training of internal staff to enable them to 
take up cross-functional activities. 
• Training of personnel to focus on increased engagement with 
stakeholders that will encourage high-end or value-added exports. 
Advantages: 
• Building of a resilient team to deliver on the export target for India. 
• Skilled resources to manage the market demands.  
Priority High