--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 10
Word Range: 1262 - 1511
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
10 
1 Executive Summary 
The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) was set up by an act of 
Parliament during 1972. The erstwhile Marine Products Export Promotion Council 
established by the Government of India in September 1961 was converged in to 
MPEDA on 24th August 1972. MPEDA is given the mandate to promote the marine 
products industry with special reference to exports from the country. It is envisaged 
that this organization would take all actions to develop and augment the resources 
required for promoting the exports of “all varieties of fishery products known 
commercially as shrimp, prawn, lobster, crab, fish, shell -fish, other aquatic animals or 
plants or part thereof and any other products which the authority may, by notification 
in the Gazette of India, declare to be marine products for the purposes of (the) Act”. 
The Act empowers MPEDA to regulate exports of marine products and take all 
measures required for ensuring sustained, quality seafood exports from the country. 
MPEDA is given the authority to prescribe for itself any matters which the future might 
require for protecting and augmenting the seafood exports from the country. It is also 
empowered to carry out inspection of marine products, its raw material, fixing 
standards, specifications, and training as well as take all necessary steps for marketing 
the seafood overseas. 
MPEDA mandated Athena Infonomics to undertake an evaluation and impact 
assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA for the SFC period 2017 -2020. 
The objective of study is to highlight the impact made by MPEDA through its central 
sector scheme and various training programs and support services such as QC and 
ELISA laboratories, and exp ort facilitation certificates for the Exporters and 
Aquaculture farmers. To assess MPEDA Central Sector Scheme, a comprehensive 
approach utilizing the Organisation for Eco nomic Co -operation and Development 
(OECD) REESI  Framework (Relevance, Efficiency, Effectiveness, Sustainability, and 
Impact) was employed. The study involved mixed methods, gathering feedback from 
key stakeholders in the marine export ecosystem. To assess the user -friendliness of 
their e-mpeda portal, Heuristic Evaluation framework was used. Various dimensions of 
user-friendliness including Visibility, Flexibility, Consistency, Freedom, Mapping, Error 
Prevention, Error Recovery, Recognition, Minimalism, and Help. 
MPEDA organises various activities and initiatives along the value chain of the fisheries 
and aquaculture industry. Under the central sector scheme for the SFC 2017 -20 
period, MPEDA implemented schemes related to promotion of value addition products, 
moving towards certification for primary production , establishment of minilabs for 
exporters, training of farmers and promotion of latest technology for species 
diversification. The various components of this central sector scheme have been 
aligned along the value chain as described below.