--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C56
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 67
Word Range: 16168 - 16488
Word Count: 321
--------------------

[Page 67]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
67 
 
6.1.3  MPEDA as Unified Authority for Export Facilitation  
Context World seafood trade is to the tune of USD 190 billion14, of which 
trade of value-added products under Harmonised System (HS) Code 
Chapter 16 is worth USD 34.6 million. India’s share in global trade of 
value-added products export is only 2.5% i.e., USD 0.86 million. 
India’s competitors in global seafood trade, China, Vietnam, Thailand 
etc are forerunners in the trade of value-added marine products. As 
against India’s miniscule share of 2.5%, China, the hub for 
reprocessing and value addition industry in the world holds share of 
28.5 % of global value-added marine products trade under Chapter 
16, followed by Thailand at 11.01% and Vietnam at 8.24%.  
In the context of Indian seafood industry, owing to issues related to 
non-availability of sufficient raw material, Indian processors are 
currently able to be utiliz e only 25 -30% of the installed capacity, 
which is tuned to the peak harvest season.  
Given this background, India can be positioned as global hub for value 
addition. To unlock this opportunity, several process related 
bottlenecks needs to be addressed such as: 
1. Lead time in issuing Sanitary Import Permit (SIP) and  Specific 
Pathogen Free (SPF)  certificate and involvement of multiple 
agencies in the clearance process 
a. The major seafood importing countries like US, EU, and 
Japan are not insisting/issuing SPF certificate for import 
and export of seafood consignment. 
b. Notified ports in India does not have the laboratory 
facilities for testing the World Organisation for Animal 
Health (WOAH), listed pathogens and chemicals in the 
imported fishery products.   The samples taken by 
FSSAI/AQCS are sent to the outside designated 
laboratory for testing.  Once FSSAI/AQCS issues a No-
Objection Certificate (NOC), EIA takes the sample again 
& tests all the parameters. The consignment is allowed 
to be processed only after the sample passes the EIA 
test. 
 
14 Source: MPEDA