--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C07
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 12
Word Range: 1762 - 2011
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 11]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
11 
 
 
The specific details of the scheme and its impact are outlined below: 
Value Addition: 
India’s share in global trade of value-added products export is only 2.5% i.e., USD 0.86 
million. India’s competitors in global seafood trade, China, Vietnam, Thailand etc. are 
forerunners in the trade of value -added marine products1. Special emphasis has been 
given for the promotion of export of value -added products as there is an increasing 
global demand for value added products in convenient form. The Scheme is aimed to 
bring in more investment in high end Value Addition and also on establishment of 
appropriate facilities to export live, chilled, and dried marine products having high unit 
value.  
Financial assistance was offered to exporters to procure large cold storage and 
machineries for process automation and packaging, upgrade technology, and develop 
infrastructure to export value -added products. For the  evaluation period 2017-20, 
there were 156 beneficiaries spread across the nine coastal states. Beneficiaries found 
the assistance very helpful and that it was crucial to pace up the volume of exports for 
their organisation. 83% of the respondents found the scheme ‘excellent’. 
Market Promotion: 
As part of market promotion activities, MPEDA has undertaken significant endeavours 
to participate in the international seafood fairs  and buyer-sellers meet etc.  MPEDA 
also offers their inputs on issues affecting market access of Indian marine products like 
Trade policy, Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures, or Technical Barriers to Trade, and 
Antidumping Duty. During the 2017-2020 period, MPEDA facilitated 14 international 
fairs with 150 co-exhibitors.  
 
1 MPEDA

[Page 12]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
12 
The beneficiaries who are newly established and small -scale exporters found the 
international fairs to be beneficial in access new buyers as they got a chance to display 
their products and engage with buyers directly. The large and experienced exporters 
found these fairs useful for networking. They preferred Buyer -Seller Meets over 
International fairs to engage with buyers more effectively. 
Export traceability and sustainability: 
The financial assistance for moving towards sustainability and certification is aimed to 
help acquire certification standards and infrastructure/equipment for the production 
of quality seafood from aquaculture Farms/Hatchery/Feed mills/ornamental fish 
breeding units/ rearing farms/ export holding facilities. For the SFC 2017-2020 period, 
total of 90 beneficiaries were benefited through this scheme.  
Market-related challenges highlighted by the respondents include lower market price 
for their crop, increasing input costs (feed and electricity) and lack of regulation on feed 
mills. However, they found the scheme very helpful and the MPEDA officials very  
supportive and engaging.  
MPEDA enables traceability through its export facilitation certificates. For the sea 
caught species, Catch certificate is issued and the type of certificate is categorised 
based on the export market such as EU or Non -EU. With regard to shrimp exports to 
the USA, DS -2031 certificate is issued to declare that the shrimps were caught in a 
manner not harmful to the turtles or were harvested from aquaculture. ICCAT is a 
specialised certificate for Tuna species. All respondents found it easy to apply for 
export facilitation certificates. They got the certificate within 24 hours. They found the 
MPEDA officials to be supportive.  
Technology Incubation in Aquaculture: 
The technology developed by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) is in 
commercial mode and the deliverable will be extended to the needy farmers & 
entrepreneurs in India. RGCA is seen as Aquaculture Technology Incubation Centre of 
MPEDA. The species promoted include seabass, mudcrab, GIFT, and artemia. 
Beneficiaries of the demonstration programs found it useful to understand the scope 
and market for these species. 
Quality Assurance: 
To meet the food safety and quality standards and ensure consumer protection, 
stringent hygiene measures have been adopted at the national, regional, and 
international levels, based on the Codex Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products 
(Codex Aliment arius Commission, 2016) and its guidance to countries on practical