--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C30
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 34 to Page 35
Word Range: 8416 - 8665
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 34]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
34 
Table 7: OECD-DAC Impact Evaluation Framework 
Criteria Question Definition 
Relevance Is the intervention doing the 
right things? 
The extent to which the intervention 
objectives and design respond to 
beneficiaries, global, country, and 
partner/institution needs, policies, and 
priorities, and continue to do so if 
circumstances change. 
Efficiency How well are resources 
being used? 
The extent to which the intervention 
delivers, or is likely to deliver, results in 
an economic and timely way. 
Effectiveness Is the intervention achieving 
its objectives? 
The extent to which the intervention 
achieved, or is expected to achieve, its 
objectives, and its results, including any 
differential results across groups. 
Impact What difference does the 
intervention make? 
The extent to which the intervention has 
generated or is expected to generate 
significant positive or negative, intended, 
or unintended, higher-level effects. 
Sustainability Will the benefits last? The extent to which the net benefits of 
the intervention continue or are likely to 
continue. 
Coherence How well does the 
intervention fit? 
The compatibility of the intervention 
with other interventions in a country, 
sector, or institution. 
This framework has been applied to the MPEDA Scheme to assess the impact of its 
various components on different stakeholders in the marine products value chain.

[Page 35]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
35 
4.3.2 Heuristics Evaluation Framework for assessment of online 
portals 
A heuristic evaluation is a method for identifying design problems in a user interface. 
To assess usability, Jakob Neilsen’s 10 usability heuristics will be used as a guideline. 
The guideline heuristics have been outlined below.  
Table 8: Heuristic Evaluation Framework 
Heuristic Description Explanation 
Visibility Show system status and tell 
what’s happening 
The interface should always keep 
users informed about what is going on 
through appropriate feedback within 
reasonable time. 
Freedom Provide good defaults and 
undo 
Allow users to leave the unwanted 
state and have a clearly marked 
“emergency exit”. 
Error Prevention Help users avoid making 
mistakes 
Eliminate error-prone conditions or 
check for them. Present users with a 
confirmation option before they 
commit to the action. 
Flexibility Make advanced tasks fluid 
and efficient 
Allow users to tailor frequent actions 
and efficiency of use. 
Error Recovery Help users recognize, 
diagnose, and recover from 
errors 
Error messages should be expressed 
in plain language, precisely indicate 
the problem, and constructively 
suggest a solution. 
Mapping Use familiar metaphors and 
language 
Speak the users’ language, words, 
phrases, and concepts 
Consistency Use the same language and 
interface throughout 
Make sure that the user interface is 
predictable and learnable. 
Recognition Make information easy to 
discover 
Minimize user’s memory load by 
making objects, actions, and options 
visible or easily retrievable whenever 
appropriate. 
Minimalism Provide only necessary 
information in an elegant way 
Every extra unit of information 
competes with the relevant units of 
information and diminishes their 
relative visibility. 
Help Use proactive and in-place 
hints to guide users 
Provide necessary help and 
documentation. Any such information 
should be easy to search, focused on 
the user’s task, list of concrete steps 
to be carried out and not be too large. 
Source: Neilsen Norman’s Heuristic Evaluation