--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C06
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 10 to Page 11
Word Range: 1512 - 1761
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
10 
1 Executive Summary 
The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) was set up by an act of 
Parliament during 1972. The erstwhile Marine Products Export Promotion Council 
established by the Government of India in September 1961 was converged in to 
MPEDA on 24th August 1972. MPEDA is given the mandate to promote the marine 
products industry with special reference to exports from the country. It is envisaged 
that this organization would take all actions to develop and augment the resources 
required for promoting the exports of “all varieties of fishery products known 
commercially as shrimp, prawn, lobster, crab, fish, shell -fish, other aquatic animals or 
plants or part thereof and any other products which the authority may, by notification 
in the Gazette of India, declare to be marine products for the purposes of (the) Act”. 
The Act empowers MPEDA to regulate exports of marine products and take all 
measures required for ensuring sustained, quality seafood exports from the country. 
MPEDA is given the authority to prescribe for itself any matters which the future might 
require for protecting and augmenting the seafood exports from the country. It is also 
empowered to carry out inspection of marine products, its raw material, fixing 
standards, specifications, and training as well as take all necessary steps for marketing 
the seafood overseas. 
MPEDA mandated Athena Infonomics to undertake an evaluation and impact 
assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA for the SFC period 2017 -2020. 
The objective of study is to highlight the impact made by MPEDA through its central 
sector scheme and various training programs and support services such as QC and 
ELISA laboratories, and exp ort facilitation certificates for the Exporters and 
Aquaculture farmers. To assess MPEDA Central Sector Scheme, a comprehensive 
approach utilizing the Organisation for Eco nomic Co -operation and Development 
(OECD) REESI  Framework (Relevance, Efficiency, Effectiveness, Sustainability, and 
Impact) was employed. The study involved mixed methods, gathering feedback from 
key stakeholders in the marine export ecosystem. To assess the user -friendliness of 
their e-mpeda portal, Heuristic Evaluation framework was used. Various dimensions of 
user-friendliness including Visibility, Flexibility, Consistency, Freedom, Mapping, Error 
Prevention, Error Recovery, Recognition, Minimalism, and Help. 
MPEDA organises various activities and initiatives along the value chain of the fisheries 
and aquaculture industry. Under the central sector scheme for the SFC 2017 -20 
period, MPEDA implemented schemes related to promotion of value addition products, 
moving towards certification for primary production , establishment of minilabs for 
exporters, training of farmers and promotion of latest technology for species 
diversification. The various components of this central sector scheme have been 
aligned along the value chain as described below.

[Page 11]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
11 
 
 
The specific details of the scheme and its impact are outlined below: 
Value Addition: 
India’s share in global trade of value-added products export is only 2.5% i.e., USD 0.86 
million. India’s competitors in global seafood trade, China, Vietnam, Thailand etc. are 
forerunners in the trade of value -added marine products1. Special emphasis has been 
given for the promotion of export of value -added products as there is an increasing 
global demand for value added products in convenient form. The Scheme is aimed to 
bring in more investment in high end Value Addition and also on establishment of 
appropriate facilities to export live, chilled, and dried marine products having high unit 
value.  
Financial assistance was offered to exporters to procure large cold storage and 
machineries for process automation and packaging, upgrade technology, and develop 
infrastructure to export value -added products. For the  evaluation period 2017-20, 
there were 156 beneficiaries spread across the nine coastal states. Beneficiaries found 
the assistance very helpful and that it was crucial to pace up the volume of exports for 
their organisation. 83% of the respondents found the scheme ‘excellent’. 
Market Promotion: 
As part of market promotion activities, MPEDA has undertaken significant endeavours 
to participate in the international seafood fairs  and buyer-sellers meet etc.  MPEDA 
also offers their inputs on issues affecting market access of Indian marine products like 
Trade policy, Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures, or Technical Barriers to Trade, and 
Antidumping Duty. During the 2017-2020 period, MPEDA facilitated 14 international 
fairs with 150 co-exhibitors.  
 
1 MPEDA