--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C34
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 40 to Page 41
Word Range: 9501 - 9887
Word Count: 387
--------------------

[Page 40]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
40 
Dimension Evaluation Questions 
Is the 
intervention 
achieving its 
objectives? 
• What was the time taken for getting the approval for your application? 
• How much time does it takes for you to get the certiﬁcate after 
applying? 
• Whether you received timely technical assistance from RGCA? 
• What is your opinion about the arrangements for the training? 
Impact 
What 
difference 
does the 
intervention 
make? 
• How has the assisted infrastructure helped you in product 
diversiﬁcation and increasing export earnings? 
• How did the scheme beneﬁt your society/cluster? 
• Whether the formation of cluster helped in better market access and 
price realisation? 
• Was the training useful for you to develop a HACCP plan for your 
unit? 
Sustainability 
How to 
sustain and 
scale the 
beneﬁts of 
the schemes? 
• Do you think the online system requires any modiﬁcations? If yes, 
please mention the same.  
• Any suggestions to improve the schemes and sub-schemes? 
• How do you feel the training can be improved further? Any 
suggestions?

[Page 41]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
41 
5.2 Impact assessment of the Central Sector Scheme 
The role of different schemes and programs under the Central Sector Scheme of 
MPEDA for the SFC 2017-2020 period have been presented along the value chain of 
the fisheries and aquaculture industry.  
Figure 6: Position of Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA in the value chain 
 
Source: Athena analysis 
The feedback from the respondent beneficiaries for respective schemes have been 
covered in the subsequent sub-sections.  
5.2.1 Support for high end/ innovative value addition for 
exports  
Special emphasis has been given for the promotion of export of value-added products 
as there is an increasing global demand for value added products in convenient form. 
The Scheme is aimed to bring in more investment in high end Value Addition and also 
on establishment of appropriate facilities to export live, chilled, and dried marine 
products having high unit value.  
There are various sub-schemes under this scheme that include: 
• Technology development for Specific Value-Added Products 
o Technology Upgradation Scheme for Marine Products 
o Assistance for Infrastructural Development for Value Addition 
o Assistance for Process Automation and Packaging 
o Assistance for Large Cold Storage 
• Assistance for export handling units for Live/Chilled and Dried marine 
products