--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 11 to Page 14
Word Range: 1637 - 2957
Word Count: 1,321
--------------------

[Page 11]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
11 
 
 
The specific details of the scheme and its impact are outlined below: 
Value Addition: 
India’s share in global trade of value-added products export is only 2.5% i.e., USD 0.86 
million. India’s competitors in global seafood trade, China, Vietnam, Thailand etc. are 
forerunners in the trade of value -added marine products1. Special emphasis has been 
given for the promotion of export of value -added products as there is an increasing 
global demand for value added products in convenient form. The Scheme is aimed to 
bring in more investment in high end Value Addition and also on establishment of 
appropriate facilities to export live, chilled, and dried marine products having high unit 
value.  
Financial assistance was offered to exporters to procure large cold storage and 
machineries for process automation and packaging, upgrade technology, and develop 
infrastructure to export value -added products. For the  evaluation period 2017-20, 
there were 156 beneficiaries spread across the nine coastal states. Beneficiaries found 
the assistance very helpful and that it was crucial to pace up the volume of exports for 
their organisation. 83% of the respondents found the scheme ‘excellent’. 
Market Promotion: 
As part of market promotion activities, MPEDA has undertaken significant endeavours 
to participate in the international seafood fairs  and buyer-sellers meet etc.  MPEDA 
also offers their inputs on issues affecting market access of Indian marine products like 
Trade policy, Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures, or Technical Barriers to Trade, and 
Antidumping Duty. During the 2017-2020 period, MPEDA facilitated 14 international 
fairs with 150 co-exhibitors.  
 
1 MPEDA

[Page 12]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
12 
The beneficiaries who are newly established and small -scale exporters found the 
international fairs to be beneficial in access new buyers as they got a chance to display 
their products and engage with buyers directly. The large and experienced exporters 
found these fairs useful for networking. They preferred Buyer -Seller Meets over 
International fairs to engage with buyers more effectively. 
Export traceability and sustainability: 
The financial assistance for moving towards sustainability and certification is aimed to 
help acquire certification standards and infrastructure/equipment for the production 
of quality seafood from aquaculture Farms/Hatchery/Feed mills/ornamental fish 
breeding units/ rearing farms/ export holding facilities. For the SFC 2017-2020 period, 
total of 90 beneficiaries were benefited through this scheme.  
Market-related challenges highlighted by the respondents include lower market price 
for their crop, increasing input costs (feed and electricity) and lack of regulation on feed 
mills. However, they found the scheme very helpful and the MPEDA officials very  
supportive and engaging.  
MPEDA enables traceability through its export facilitation certificates. For the sea 
caught species, Catch certificate is issued and the type of certificate is categorised 
based on the export market such as EU or Non -EU. With regard to shrimp exports to 
the USA, DS -2031 certificate is issued to declare that the shrimps were caught in a 
manner not harmful to the turtles or were harvested from aquaculture. ICCAT is a 
specialised certificate for Tuna species. All respondents found it easy to apply for 
export facilitation certificates. They got the certificate within 24 hours. They found the 
MPEDA officials to be supportive.  
Technology Incubation in Aquaculture: 
The technology developed by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) is in 
commercial mode and the deliverable will be extended to the needy farmers & 
entrepreneurs in India. RGCA is seen as Aquaculture Technology Incubation Centre of 
MPEDA. The species promoted include seabass, mudcrab, GIFT, and artemia. 
Beneficiaries of the demonstration programs found it useful to understand the scope 
and market for these species. 
Quality Assurance: 
To meet the food safety and quality standards and ensure consumer protection, 
stringent hygiene measures have been adopted at the national, regional, and 
international levels, based on the Codex Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products 
(Codex Aliment arius Commission, 2016) and its guidance to countries on practical

[Page 13]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
13 
aspects of implementing good hygiene practices and the Hazard Analysis Critical 
Control Point (HACCP) food safety management system. 
The financial assistance to set up Mini Labs allows for establishment of laboratory for 
microbial and chemical parameters of fishery products intended for export purpose in 
approved processing plant/ handling center testing of fishery products. The main 
objective of the scheme is to enable in -house testing of t he export consignments at 
the processing plant level. 60% of the respondents reported to have better control over 
quality and realised significant cost saving on account of this scheme . All the 
respondents reported that the assistance for mini labs was useful.  
To monitor the control over the residues of unauthorized substances and 
environmental contaminants in ﬁsh & ﬁshery products, MPEDA has established ﬁve 
Quality Control (QC) Laboratories and ELISA Screening laboratories to support the 
farming community in en suring the quality and traceability of the shrimp crops they 
have produced for export supply. MPEDA operates 1 4 ELISA labs across India. An 
average of 11,000 samples were tested annually during 2017 -2020. QC labs tested a 
total of 25,591 samples during the same period. Respondents who availed MPEDA lab 
services found the services to be reliable and the persons at lab to be responsive and 
prompt in informing the test results.  
Training and Skill Development: 
Between 2017 and 2020, v arious training and skill development programs were 
organised by the Aquaculture division of MPEDA in which about 30,292 beneficiaries 
participated. While all the respondents found the training useful and relevant, follow -
up with them regarding the adoption of practices remains a challenge. It would be 
effective to have a targeted approach to different training programs to then move to a 
scalable model.  
 
Impact and Recommendations 
In conclusion, the study highlights MPEDA’s instrumental role in expanding India's 
marine exports ecosystem through well -structured policies, infrastructure expansion, 
robust institutional building, ecosystem creation, innovative approaches, and 
remarkable impact at the beneficiary level. The achievements outlined in this study 
advocate for continued support and recognition of MPEDA’s efforts, and the 
recommendations further strengthen its strategic direction, program efficiency, and 
overall positive impact on marine products development in India. The key impact of the 
schemes is outlined below:

[Page 14]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
14 
REESI 
Dimensions 
Impact Findings 
 
• Financial Assistance Schemes were aligned with the 
beneficiary needs, market demands and global value chain 
of fisheries and aquaculture. 
• 100% of respondents have reported that the scheme was 
crucial for development in marine products exports. 
 
• The e -mpeda portal has a score of 60% on user -
friendliness assessed based on heuristic evaluation which 
leads to sub -optimal performance and lower adoption of 
online system for application processing.   
• Only 30 -35% respondents found the online application 
(for financial assistance) easy to use. 
• About 50% of the respondents found the assistance 
amount adequate while remaining expect a higher subsidy 
amount. 
• 100% of respondents found that participation as co -
exhibitors offered improved engagement with the 
international market. 40% were able to access new buyers.  
• 100% of respondents found the MPEDA officials 
supportive and responsive. 
 
• Respondents of financial assistance scheme have reported 
an increase in productivity and turnover. Monitoring 
beyond the obligation period to capture the long -term 
impact is not available. 
• 100% of respondents have reported that online portal 
provided a faster turnaround (less than one day) for export 
facilitation certificates. 
• 20% of beneficiaries reported an increase in exports after 
attending international fairs 
• 100% of beneficiaries found prospective buyers while 
participating in the international fairs 
• Less than 10% of the respondents utilised MPEDA lab 
services on need basis. Beneficiaries found the MPEDA lab 
testing services reliable and timely. 
• Adoption of value -added products or processes after 
MPEDA training was low due to multiple factors like high 
cost of investment in production line & lack of adequate 
Relevance
Efficiency
Effectiveness