--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 13
Word Range: 2407 - 2790
Word Count: 384
--------------------

[Page 13]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
13 
aspects of implementing good hygiene practices and the Hazard Analysis Critical 
Control Point (HACCP) food safety management system. 
The financial assistance to set up Mini Labs allows for establishment of laboratory for 
microbial and chemical parameters of fishery products intended for export purpose in 
approved processing plant/ handling center testing of fishery products. The main 
objective of the scheme is to enable in -house testing of t he export consignments at 
the processing plant level. 60% of the respondents reported to have better control over 
quality and realised significant cost saving on account of this scheme . All the 
respondents reported that the assistance for mini labs was useful.  
To monitor the control over the residues of unauthorized substances and 
environmental contaminants in ﬁsh & ﬁshery products, MPEDA has established ﬁve 
Quality Control (QC) Laboratories and ELISA Screening laboratories to support the 
farming community in en suring the quality and traceability of the shrimp crops they 
have produced for export supply. MPEDA operates 1 4 ELISA labs across India. An 
average of 11,000 samples were tested annually during 2017 -2020. QC labs tested a 
total of 25,591 samples during the same period. Respondents who availed MPEDA lab 
services found the services to be reliable and the persons at lab to be responsive and 
prompt in informing the test results.  
Training and Skill Development: 
Between 2017 and 2020, v arious training and skill development programs were 
organised by the Aquaculture division of MPEDA in which about 30,292 beneficiaries 
participated. While all the respondents found the training useful and relevant, follow -
up with them regarding the adoption of practices remains a challenge. It would be 
effective to have a targeted approach to different training programs to then move to a 
scalable model.  
 
Impact and Recommendations 
In conclusion, the study highlights MPEDA’s instrumental role in expanding India's 
marine exports ecosystem through well -structured policies, infrastructure expansion, 
robust institutional building, ecosystem creation, innovative approaches, and 
remarkable impact at the beneficiary level. The achievements outlined in this study 
advocate for continued support and recognition of MPEDA’s efforts, and the 
recommendations further strengthen its strategic direction, program efficiency, and 
overall positive impact on marine products development in India. The key impact of the 
schemes is outlined below: