--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C92
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 110
Word Range: 25811 - 26112
Word Count: 302
--------------------

[Page 110]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
110 
Training and Capacity Building 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  Name of interviewer  
2.  Date of interview  DD/MM/YYYY 
3.  Section Name  
4.  Permission for interview granted.  (1) Yes 
(2) No 
5.  Respondent Name   
6.  Designation  
7.  District name  
8.  State name  
 
1. What are the key training and capacity building initiatives of your section? 
2. What is the process for administrating training and capacity building? – mobilization to 
conduct of training program? 
3. How do you budget for the scheme?  
4. What percentage of beneficiaries are covered under the training and capacity building? – 
Potential vis-v-vis Actual coverage? 
5. How critical is the training and capacity building in promoting the exports? 
6. How do you go about identifying and structuring the coverage for various training 
programs? 
7. Have you done any skill gap analysis of beneficiaries for the respective training programs? 
8. What kind of systems are available to track – pre – and post – training feedback? 
9. How often do you update the content for the programs? 
10. How many trainers do you have? (In-house and external) 
11. Have you looked at RPL initiatives of central govt programs? 
12. Where do you face most challenges in implementing the training programs? 
13. How have you overcome some of these challenges?  
14. What suggestions for improvements with regard to the training and capacity building?  
15. What are the expectations of beneficiaries in training and capacity building?  
16. What were the main concerns expressed by beneficiaries? (Either during your interaction 
or other modes of interactions? 
17. How do you address those concerns? Individual or regular meetings? If there are regular 
meetings, how often do you conduct such meetings? 
18. How do you assess the impact of your training and capacity building scheme?