--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C26
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 29 to Page 30
Word Range: 7336 - 7585
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 29]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
29 
• Promotion of Indian marine products in overseas markets. 
• Implementation of schemes vital to the industry by extending assistance for 
infrastructure development for better preservation and modernized processing 
following quality regime. 
• Promotion of aquaculture for augmenting export production through hatchery 
development, new farm development, diversification of species and up 
gradation of technology 
• Promotion of deep-sea fishing projects through test fishing, joint ventures, and 
up gradation & installation of equipment to increase the efficiency of fishing. 
• Market promotional activities and publicity. 
• To carry out inspection of marine products, its raw material, fixing standards 
and specifications, training, regulating as well as to take all necessary steps for 
maintaining the quality of seafood that are marketed overseas. 
• Impart trainings to fishermen, fish processing workers, aquaculture farmers 
and other stake holders in the respective fields related to fisheries, promotion 
of modernization of fishing harbours. 
• Conduct research and development for the aquaculture of aquatic species 
having export potential through Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA). 
• Conduct extension and awareness activities, trainings etc. through Network 
for Fish Quality Management and Sustainable Fishing (NETFISH) & National 
Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA). 
• To prescribe for itself any matters required for protecting and augmenting the 
seafood exports from the country in the future. 
The central sector scheme of MPEDA is presented below. It has various sub -
components to address different needs of various stakeholders in this ecosystem. It 
offers financial assistance, training programs, technical assistance, and laboratory 
services. It also offers other support services such as trade promotions, export 
facilitation certificates and registration of stakeholders and export units.

[Page 30]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
30 
 
 
Source: MPEDA 
 
Table 5: Description of components of MPEDA Central Sector Scheme 
Component Objective 
Market Promotion  
Promotion of Indian seafood in overseas markets through various 
promotional campaigns utilizing trade promotion offices, and 
digital media, including advertisements, participation in trade 
fairs, trade delegations, market studies, buyer-seller meets etc.  
Support for high end/ 
innovative value addition 
for exports  
Assist export processing units on expenses related to 
certification, infrastructure upgradation/ modifications and 
encourage value addition in the sector.  
Certification for export 
traceability of wild 
caught & products 
farmed  
Carry out sector-specific export promotion activities viz. 
providing export facilitation certificates to comply with the 
import market regulations concerned. Forming clusters of small-
scale and marginal farmers for sustainable and quality shrimp 
production.  
Export oriented 
aquaculture technology 
incubation  
Development of incubation centers for aquaculture such as 
farming through cage culture, pen culture etc.  
MPEDA SCHEME
Market 
Promotion
Brand  
Promotion of 
MPEDA Quality  
Logo Products
Publicity and 
Trade Promotion
Registration, 
Statistics and 
Information 
Technology
Trade Promotion 
Office (New 
Delhi/New 
York/Tokyo)
Market access 
studies, Trade 
delegations, 
BSMs
Support for High 
end/Innovative 
value addition for 
exports
Technology 
development for 
specific value 
added products 
Assistance for export 
handling units for 
live/chilled and dried 
marine products
Certification for  
export 
traceability of 
wild caught & 
farmed products
Assistance for 
certification of  
product value chain in 
seafood 
Export oriented 
Aquaculture 
Technology 
Incubation
Quality 
Assurance
Quality Control 
Labs
Quality System 
Management
Establishment
Figure 5: Components and Sub-components of MPEDA Central Sector Scheme