--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 15 to Page 17
Word Range: 2958 - 4204
Word Count: 1,247
--------------------

[Page 15]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
15 
REESI 
Dimensions 
Impact Findings 
support in transferring learning of training into production 
line. 
• 100% of respondents found mini lab set up with MPEDA's 
financial assistance useful. 
• Respondents reported a limited price realization as 
envisaged as part of cluster formations by NaCSA. 
• 100% of the respondents found the training material and 
quality of trainers adequate and relevant.  
• Online portal is transactional and does not allow for 
continuous engagement of beneficiaries. 
 
• Respondents of financial assistance scheme for value -
added products and mini labs continue to use the 
infrastructure for furthering exports. 
• Training programs helped create awareness, but the rate 
of adoption is slow due to cost-benefit reasons.  
• Portal for availing export facilitation certificates was 
reported to be useful and user -friendly leading to higher 
adoption rate.  
• Farming clusters were unable to leverage the complete 
benefits due to low bargaining power. 
• Technical documentation for all modules of e -mpeda 
portal not available. Change requests and updates done 
over email does not allow monitoring and learning of the 
portal utilisation.  
• Awareness about the schemes and services of MPEDA is 
person-driven and nature of benefit realised.  
• Limited brand building of MPEDA  
 
The suggested recommendations build on stakeholders’ feedback and structure around 
broad dimensions for the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) to 
enhance its impact and effectiveness. The recommendations have been structured on 
three levels – Strategic, System and Process level and Scheme-level.   
Establish a Technical Project Management Office (TPMO): MPEDA should transform 
from the role of administrator of financial benefits to a techno-commercial agency for 
better engagement with stakeholders. TPMO would work on mission mode and be 
cross-functional with clearly defined outcomes aligned to organizational goals and 
functional goals.  
Sustainability

[Page 16]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
16 
Establish a Marine Sector Skill Council: As per Handbook of Fisheries Statistics 2022, 
fisheries and aquaculture sector supports about 2.8 crore fishers – 2.3 inland; 49 lakh 
marine. There are 1,515 registered exporters with MPEDA , 613 processing centres; 
271 handling centres; 787 storage facilities (as per MPEDA Annual Report 2019-20) in 
Marine export industry required varying degrees of skill requirement. Th is will help 
address the need for a formal institutional structure to focus on skill development of  
the entire skill pyramid of the marine industry.  To enable industrywide skill 
development, MPEDA to establish a Marine Sector Skill Council (MSSC) in consultation 
with MSDE.  This will help in standardisation of skilling across the value chain, build 
world class skilling program, incubate futuristic ski lling model, attract investment, and 
generate employment opportunities. 
MPEDA to be designated as Unified Authority for Export Certification – To reduce 
lead time and improve ease of doing business  in issuing of Sanitary Import Permit, 
Specific Pathogen Free Certificate, NOC from Customs & DGFT for Advance 
authorisation, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may consider nominating 
MPEDA  as an authorized agency for single window clearance for import of  raw 
material for reprocessing and export of value -added seafood products , and may be 
delegated power as a single agency for collection of sample and testing for clearance 
marine product consignments for import of  raw material for reprocessing and expo rt.  
Though MPEDA was formed in 1972, the powers to certify fish & fishery products for 
export is still vested with EIC, which deals with multiple commodities. Assigning fish 
and fishery product certification for exports to MPEDA will help the industry and 
significantly improve the ease of doing business by offering a single window service to 
the stakeholders and facilitating import of raw material for reprocessing will increase 
India’s share in global value addition.  
Delegation of authority to evaluate proposals: To reduce the duplication of efforts for 
evaluation of proposals at the Head office and field offices, MPEDA to review the 
current delegation of power for various levels. This will allow for quick decision-making 
in evaluation of proposals. Further, the e -mpeda portal needs to be redesigned to 
accommodate for these chan ges for faster processing of applications and proposals 
online itself.  
Demand driven budgetary support to various initiatives: MPEDA to devise a demand 
driven budgetary support system to capture various opportunities in the marine value 
chain. To enable significant impact of the system post disbursement, MPEDA may 
consider institutionalising agile/adaptive planning cycle based on the nature of the 
scheme, lead-time required to create an impact, number of beneficiaries to be targeted,  
and economic size required to create an impact. Also, a strategic roadmap needs to be 
created to facilitate/migrate beneficiaries who applied for the schemes but haven’t 
received the assistance to transition smoothly into another scheme if available or 
engage continuously to support them technically.

[Page 17]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
17 
Proactive Market Promotion and Engagement: To keep up with the competition in the 
international markets, MPEDA enables participation of exporters in the International 
Seafood Fairs each year and organizes buyer -seller meets to help exporters expand 
their market and buyers. In addition, small export ers (export value less than USD 20 
million) receive financial assistance from MPEDA to participate in these fairs as co -
exhibitors. To augment this initiative,  MPEDA may consider segmenting beneficiary 
based on their needs and undertake segment specific market promotion activities such 
as buyer – seller meet in destination markets  (virtual and in -person), reverse buyer -
seller meets in India  for experienced marine exporters, enhanced fair participation for 
new exporters, and diversification of international fair participation to new emerging 
markets and deepening in existing markets by participating in regional food fairs.   
Adoption of digital and artificial intelligence-based solutions: With the reduced human 
resources as a reality, it becomes imperative to adopt intelligent digital solutions such 
as chatbot, decision-support system, blockchain and such tools to share information 
and communications regarding various initiatives of MPEDA. Redesign the MPEDA 
website and e-mpeda portal according to GIGW guideline to improve user experience 
of various stakeholders. 
Transformation of societies as FPOs: The National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture 
(NaCSA) can help the aquaculture farmer societies form as Farmer Producer 
Organisations (FPOs) to help access institutional finance and insurance and get better 
market access and price for their crops. This is cr itical as 90% of the Indian shrimp 
farmers belong to small -scale or marginal category with operational holdings of less 
than two hectare per individual. Further, tying up with Credit Guarantee Trust Fund 
for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) for farmers would help avail collateral-free 
loans.  
Augmenting human resources requirement in technical roles : The total sanctioned 
strength of MPEDA has been revised from 420 to 250 combining the Head Office and 
Field Offices. Out of this, the present resource in position is only 181 including 11 
officials on deputation. The existing staff is not be adequate to meet the growth 
objective of the sector. In this context, it is important to recalibrate human resources 
requirement in line with the sector requirements  and build their capacity to take up 
cross-functional roles while having a holistic view of the export ecosystem. 
Other recommendations include providing local language support in both online and 
physical application forms, leveraging the collective experience of MPEDA, a fee-based 
research service and market intelligence support can be offered to exporters, investors, 
etc. and focus on building quality branding and logo. 
These recommendations highlight the potential areas where MPEDA can further 
enhance its operations and its impact on marine export development.