--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C54
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 63 to Page 66
Word Range: 15640 - 15889
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 63]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
63 
  
RECOMMENDATIONS 
CHAPTER 6

[Page 64]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
64 
6 Recommendations 
The recommendations have been structured on four levels – (1) Strategic; (2) System 
and Process; (3) Scheme-level and (4) Ecosystem Initiatives.  
6.1 Strategic 
6.1.1 Establish a Technical Project Management Office (TPMO) 
Context • The structure of MPEDA is functionally organized into  
administrative sections, there is limited formal flow of information 
and data among the sections leading to the schemes and programs 
being implemented as a standalone activity.  
• From beneficiary perspective, the role of MPEDA is seen as 
administrator of financial benefits than technical agency leading to 
reduced stickiness with beneficiaries and may lead to 
marginalization of MPEDA role in the future. 
Action 
Points 
• Establish cross-functional Technical Project Management Office  
(TPMO) to ensure alignment of goals  
• Rebranding of MPEDA as techno -commercial agency from 
beneficiary perspective 
• TPMO will operate on Mission Mode with clearly defined 
outcomes linking organisational goals with functional goals - 
Balanced score card.  
• Build evidence-based outcome templates. 
• Design and develop impact dashboard. 
Technical PMO will support the top management in:  
▪ Prioritization of projects and ideas 
▪ Distribution of strategic information 
▪ Strategic alignment of projects and ideas 
▪ Cost-benefit analyses of projects and ideas 
▪ Check for achieved strategic contribution

[Page 65]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
65 
 
Priority High

[Page 66]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
66 
 
6.1.2  Establish a Marine Sector Skill Council  
Context • There is no formal institutional structure to focus on skill 
development of the entire skill pyramid of the marine industry. 
• Fisheries and aquaculture support about 2.8  crore fishers – 2.3 
crore inland fishers and 49 lakh marine fishers12. There are 1,515 
exporters registered with MPEDA. There are  613 processing 
plants; 271 handling centres; 787 storage facilities 13 in Marine 
export industry required varying degrees of skill requirement. 
Action 
Points 
• Establish Marine Export Sector Skill Council in association with 
NSDC. 
• Act as nodal agency for certification and accreditation for 
vocational training program  in marine and aquaculture sector  on 
export related activities. 
• Develop functional and occupational mapping, prepare National 
Occupational Standards  (NOS) and Qualification Packs,  Roll-out 
RPL and Short -term training program in association with training 
partners. 
• Converge all the current training initiatives of MPEDA under the 
Marine Sector Skill Council 
Advantages: 
• Build a self -sustaining training ecosystem in marine products 
export sector. 
• Convergence of existing MPEDA training programme under the 
Marine Sector Skill Council (MSSC) 
• Develop market driven training programs  for exporters on value 
addition, market regulations etc. 
• Increased access to training program for fishers through PMKVY 
RPL programs 
• Access to funding through donors, CSR and PMKVY schemes, 
which is a major constraint right now due to reduced budgetary 
support.  
Priority High 
 
12 Handbook on Fisheries Statistics 2020, Government of India 
13 MPEDA Annual Report 2019-20