--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C37
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 44
Word Range: 10537 - 10849
Word Count: 313
--------------------

[Page 44]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
44 
 
Intended outcomes of such participation 
(I) Connect with new buyers and markets. 
(II) Trade enquiries  
Efficiency: 80% of the respondents found the support extended by MPEDA in enabling 
participation in the fairs as satisfactory.  
Effectiveness: 40% of the respondents reported that they were able to access new 
buyers from the trade enquiries. 30% of the respondents did not find the enquiries 
useful. This was primarily attributed to two reasons – exporters had a strong market 
connect already and the email response rate is much lower than direct engagement 
with buyers. Newly established exporters especially those attending for the first time 
may require more handholding support in presenting their products in the stall.  
Some of the unintended benefits reported 
were faster visa approvals, support in 
consolidation of samples for display.  
In contrast, 60% of the respondents expect 
MPEDA’s support in providing information on new markets. 30% of the respondents 
feel a more continuous engagement of MPEDA and the exporters would be helpful.  
Impact: Around 20% of the respondents reported an increase in exports after engaging 
with buyers from the international fairs. One exporter reported an export value of INR 
55 crore while another exporter reported a 2-3% increase in exports.  
Relevance and Sustainability: Between 2017 and 2019, there were a total of 150 co -
exhibitors in the 14 fairs organised. Of them, 96 (64%) were unique exporters. Many 
exporters participate in multiple fairs in the same year and over the years as well. While 
the participation may be voluntary, it is important to encourage more unique 
participation.   
Request for 
participation
MPEDA shares a 
calendar of events 
with all exporters
Based on slot availability & 
payment status, confirmation is 
shared to exporter
Eligible exporters apply for 
financial assistance to 
participate as co-exhibitor
“Stalls act as great pull 
factor for sales.” 
- Exporter