--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C46
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 54
Word Range: 13189 - 13579
Word Count: 391
--------------------

[Page 54]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
54 
5.2.5 Certification for export traceability of wild caught & 
farmed products.  
Fish farming allows greater control over production processes than do capture 
fisheries, and it is more conducive to vertical and horizontal integration in production 
and supply chains. As a result, aquaculture has expanded fish availability to regions and 
countries with otherwise limited or no access to the cultured species, often at cheaper 
prices, leading to improved nutrition and food security. The expansion in aquaculture 
production is due to species such as shrimps, salmon, bivalves, tilapia, carp, and catfish.  
5.2.5.1 Financial Assistance for Moving towards certification 
The financial assistance for moving towards sustainability and certification is aimed to 
help acquire certification standards and infrastructure/equipment for the production 
of quality seafood from aquaculture Farms/Hatchery/Feed mills/ ornamental fish 
breeding units/ rearing farms/ export holding facilities. 
This scheme envisages capacity building of aquafarmers, small farmers in particular, to 
achieve the certification standards and facilitate them to get National Certification 
(SHAPHARI) or a Third-Party Certification thereby paving way for getting easy market 
access and earning better prices for their produce. 
Figure 14: Application process flow to avail financial assistance for moving towards sustainability and certification. 
 
Source: Interpretation of the Scheme Guidelines for Assistance for Certification of primary production, 
MPEDA-Aquaculture section 
For the SFC 2017-2020 period, the average financial assistance provided was INR 2.9 
lakh. For 90 beneficiaries, total financial assistance disbursed was INR 2.69 crore.  
Advance Approval 
application
MPEDA-registered/enrolled
• Aqua farm or Aqua Farmers Society, or 
hatchery or nursery or feed mill.
• Ornamental fish rearing farm, breeding 
units, fish producer companies, 
aquarium plant culturing units, export 
holding centres, mini feed mills
MTC-
Quotation for
• biosecurity 
infrastructure
• Any other 
eligible item
• Supporting 
documents 
requested 
50% of the admissible cost 
incurred subject to a maximum 
financial assistance of Rs. 5 
lakh per unit, whichever is less.
Physical 
verification
Field office 
uploads 
geotagged 
photo HO for 
Advance 
approval
Final Approval 
application
Physical 
verification
Field office uploads 
geotagged photo, 
certified invoices & 
recommendation
Collection of 
bond, Aadhaar-
linked bank 
account details
Chairman 
for Final 
approval
Release of 
Assistance
Advance 
Approval letter 
issued
Upon completion of 
construction/installation
Export-oriented species:
P.monodon, L.vannamei, P.indicus, P.merguiensis, 
Scampi, GIFT Tilapia, Asian Sea bass, Mangrove 
(Mud) crab, Pangasius, Cobia, Grouper, Pompano
Scrutiny at Head 
Office level
Subsidy 
Committee