--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 12
Word Range: 2012 - 2406
Word Count: 395
--------------------

[Page 12]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
12 
The beneficiaries who are newly established and small -scale exporters found the 
international fairs to be beneficial in access new buyers as they got a chance to display 
their products and engage with buyers directly. The large and experienced exporters 
found these fairs useful for networking. They preferred Buyer -Seller Meets over 
International fairs to engage with buyers more effectively. 
Export traceability and sustainability: 
The financial assistance for moving towards sustainability and certification is aimed to 
help acquire certification standards and infrastructure/equipment for the production 
of quality seafood from aquaculture Farms/Hatchery/Feed mills/ornamental fish 
breeding units/ rearing farms/ export holding facilities. For the SFC 2017-2020 period, 
total of 90 beneficiaries were benefited through this scheme.  
Market-related challenges highlighted by the respondents include lower market price 
for their crop, increasing input costs (feed and electricity) and lack of regulation on feed 
mills. However, they found the scheme very helpful and the MPEDA officials very  
supportive and engaging.  
MPEDA enables traceability through its export facilitation certificates. For the sea 
caught species, Catch certificate is issued and the type of certificate is categorised 
based on the export market such as EU or Non -EU. With regard to shrimp exports to 
the USA, DS -2031 certificate is issued to declare that the shrimps were caught in a 
manner not harmful to the turtles or were harvested from aquaculture. ICCAT is a 
specialised certificate for Tuna species. All respondents found it easy to apply for 
export facilitation certificates. They got the certificate within 24 hours. They found the 
MPEDA officials to be supportive.  
Technology Incubation in Aquaculture: 
The technology developed by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) is in 
commercial mode and the deliverable will be extended to the needy farmers & 
entrepreneurs in India. RGCA is seen as Aquaculture Technology Incubation Centre of 
MPEDA. The species promoted include seabass, mudcrab, GIFT, and artemia. 
Beneficiaries of the demonstration programs found it useful to understand the scope 
and market for these species. 
Quality Assurance: 
To meet the food safety and quality standards and ensure consumer protection, 
stringent hygiene measures have been adopted at the national, regional, and 
international levels, based on the Codex Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products 
(Codex Aliment arius Commission, 2016) and its guidance to countries on practical