--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C10
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 14
Word Range: 2791 - 3077
Word Count: 287
--------------------

[Page 14]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
14 
REESI 
Dimensions 
Impact Findings 
 
• Financial Assistance Schemes were aligned with the 
beneficiary needs, market demands and global value chain 
of fisheries and aquaculture. 
• 100% of respondents have reported that the scheme was 
crucial for development in marine products exports. 
 
• The e -mpeda portal has a score of 60% on user -
friendliness assessed based on heuristic evaluation which 
leads to sub -optimal performance and lower adoption of 
online system for application processing.   
• Only 30 -35% respondents found the online application 
(for financial assistance) easy to use. 
• About 50% of the respondents found the assistance 
amount adequate while remaining expect a higher subsidy 
amount. 
• 100% of respondents found that participation as co -
exhibitors offered improved engagement with the 
international market. 40% were able to access new buyers.  
• 100% of respondents found the MPEDA officials 
supportive and responsive. 
 
• Respondents of financial assistance scheme have reported 
an increase in productivity and turnover. Monitoring 
beyond the obligation period to capture the long -term 
impact is not available. 
• 100% of respondents have reported that online portal 
provided a faster turnaround (less than one day) for export 
facilitation certificates. 
• 20% of beneficiaries reported an increase in exports after 
attending international fairs 
• 100% of beneficiaries found prospective buyers while 
participating in the international fairs 
• Less than 10% of the respondents utilised MPEDA lab 
services on need basis. Beneficiaries found the MPEDA lab 
testing services reliable and timely. 
• Adoption of value -added products or processes after 
MPEDA training was low due to multiple factors like high 
cost of investment in production line & lack of adequate 
Relevance
Efficiency
Effectiveness