--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C12
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 62 to Page 68
Word Range: 14858 - 16221
Word Count: 1,364
--------------------

[Page 62]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
62 
• 100% of respondents have reported that online portal 
provided a faster turnaround (less than one day) for 
export facilitation certificates. 
• 20% of beneficiaries reported an increase in exports after 
attending international fairs. 
• 100% of beneficiaries found prospective buyers while 
participating in the international fairs. 
• Less than 5% of the respondents utilised MPEDA lab 
services on need basis. Beneficiaries found the MPEDA 
lab testing services reliable and timely. 
• Low conversion of beneficiaries adopting value-added 
products or processes after MPEDA training due to 
multiple factors 
• 100% of respondents found mini lab set up with 
MPEDA's financial assistance useful. 
• Respondents reported a limited price realization due to 
cluster formation. 
• 100% of the respondents found the training material and 
quality of trainers adequate and relevant.  
• Online portal is transactional and does not allow for 
continuous engagement of beneficiaries. 
 
• Respondents of financial assistance scheme for value-
added products and mini labs continue to use the 
infrastructure for furthering exports. 
• Training programs helped create awareness, but the rate 
of adoption is slow due to cost-benefit reasons.  
• Portal for availing export facilitation certificates was 
reported to be useful and user-friendly leading to higher 
adoption rate.  
• Farming clusters were unable to leverage the complete 
benefits due to low bargaining power. 
• Technical documentation for all modules of e-mpeda 
portal not available. Change requests and updates done 
over email does not allow monitoring and learning of the 
portal utilisation.  
• Awareness about the schemes and services of MPEDA is 
person-driven and nature of benefit realised. 
 
  
Sustainability

[Page 63]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
63 
  
RECOMMENDATIONS 
CHAPTER 6

[Page 64]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
64 
6 Recommendations 
The recommendations have been structured on four levels – (1) Strategic; (2) System 
and Process; (3) Scheme-level and (4) Ecosystem Initiatives.  
6.1 Strategic 
6.1.1 Establish a Technical Project Management Office (TPMO) 
Context • The structure of MPEDA is functionally organized into  
administrative sections, there is limited formal flow of information 
and data among the sections leading to the schemes and programs 
being implemented as a standalone activity.  
• From beneficiary perspective, the role of MPEDA is seen as 
administrator of financial benefits than technical agency leading to 
reduced stickiness with beneficiaries and may lead to 
marginalization of MPEDA role in the future. 
Action 
Points 
• Establish cross-functional Technical Project Management Office  
(TPMO) to ensure alignment of goals  
• Rebranding of MPEDA as techno -commercial agency from 
beneficiary perspective 
• TPMO will operate on Mission Mode with clearly defined 
outcomes linking organisational goals with functional goals - 
Balanced score card.  
• Build evidence-based outcome templates. 
• Design and develop impact dashboard. 
Technical PMO will support the top management in:  
▪ Prioritization of projects and ideas 
▪ Distribution of strategic information 
▪ Strategic alignment of projects and ideas 
▪ Cost-benefit analyses of projects and ideas 
▪ Check for achieved strategic contribution

[Page 65]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
65 
 
Priority High

[Page 66]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
66 
 
6.1.2  Establish a Marine Sector Skill Council  
Context • There is no formal institutional structure to focus on skill 
development of the entire skill pyramid of the marine industry. 
• Fisheries and aquaculture support about 2.8  crore fishers – 2.3 
crore inland fishers and 49 lakh marine fishers12. There are 1,515 
exporters registered with MPEDA. There are  613 processing 
plants; 271 handling centres; 787 storage facilities 13 in Marine 
export industry required varying degrees of skill requirement. 
Action 
Points 
• Establish Marine Export Sector Skill Council in association with 
NSDC. 
• Act as nodal agency for certification and accreditation for 
vocational training program  in marine and aquaculture sector  on 
export related activities. 
• Develop functional and occupational mapping, prepare National 
Occupational Standards  (NOS) and Qualification Packs,  Roll-out 
RPL and Short -term training program in association with training 
partners. 
• Converge all the current training initiatives of MPEDA under the 
Marine Sector Skill Council 
Advantages: 
• Build a self -sustaining training ecosystem in marine products 
export sector. 
• Convergence of existing MPEDA training programme under the 
Marine Sector Skill Council (MSSC) 
• Develop market driven training programs  for exporters on value 
addition, market regulations etc. 
• Increased access to training program for fishers through PMKVY 
RPL programs 
• Access to funding through donors, CSR and PMKVY schemes, 
which is a major constraint right now due to reduced budgetary 
support.  
Priority High 
 
12 Handbook on Fisheries Statistics 2020, Government of India 
13 MPEDA Annual Report 2019-20

[Page 67]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
67 
 
6.1.3  MPEDA as Unified Authority for Export Facilitation  
Context World seafood trade is to the tune of USD 190 billion14, of which 
trade of value-added products under Harmonised System (HS) Code 
Chapter 16 is worth USD 34.6 million. India’s share in global trade of 
value-added products export is only 2.5% i.e., USD 0.86 million. 
India’s competitors in global seafood trade, China, Vietnam, Thailand 
etc are forerunners in the trade of value-added marine products. As 
against India’s miniscule share of 2.5%, China, the hub for 
reprocessing and value addition industry in the world holds share of 
28.5 % of global value-added marine products trade under Chapter 
16, followed by Thailand at 11.01% and Vietnam at 8.24%.  
In the context of Indian seafood industry, owing to issues related to 
non-availability of sufficient raw material, Indian processors are 
currently able to be utiliz e only 25 -30% of the installed capacity, 
which is tuned to the peak harvest season.  
Given this background, India can be positioned as global hub for value 
addition. To unlock this opportunity, several process related 
bottlenecks needs to be addressed such as: 
1. Lead time in issuing Sanitary Import Permit (SIP) and  Specific 
Pathogen Free (SPF)  certificate and involvement of multiple 
agencies in the clearance process 
a. The major seafood importing countries like US, EU, and 
Japan are not insisting/issuing SPF certificate for import 
and export of seafood consignment. 
b. Notified ports in India does not have the laboratory 
facilities for testing the World Organisation for Animal 
Health (WOAH), listed pathogens and chemicals in the 
imported fishery products.   The samples taken by 
FSSAI/AQCS are sent to the outside designated 
laboratory for testing.  Once FSSAI/AQCS issues a No-
Objection Certificate (NOC), EIA takes the sample again 
& tests all the parameters. The consignment is allowed 
to be processed only after the sample passes the EIA 
test. 
 
14 Source: MPEDA

[Page 68]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
68 
2. Lead-time in issuance of NOC from Customs & DGFT for 
Advance Authorization 
a. The lead -time ranges from 15 to 25 days in advance 
authorization 
MPEDA was formed in 1972. However, the powers to certify fish & 
fishery products for export is still vested with EIC, which deals with 
multiple commodities. This requires exporters to interface with more 
than one entity for export facilitation.  
Action 
Points 
▪ MPEDA may be designated as an authorized agency for single 
window clearance for import of raw material for re processing and 
export of value-added seafood products. MPEDA would facilitate 
export of fish and fishery in line with the regulatory functions of 
APEDA & Spices Board. 
▪ MPEDA may be delegated power as a single agency for collection 
of sample and testing for clearance for import of  marine product 
raw material for  reprocessing and export to  reduce lead-time in 
getting NOC from FSSAI and EIC 
▪ Include import of marine products for value addition and export 
under Foreign Trade Policy as a chapter to provide exclusive focus 
on marine products.   
▪ Leverage the Manufacturing and Other Operations in Warehouse 
(MOOWR) scheme for import of raw materials to reduce delay 
clearing customs. 
Advantages: 
▪ Ease of doing business for marine exporters 
▪ Increased value addition of imported raw materials 
▪ Single point of control for import and export of marine products 
▪ Assigning fish and fishery product certification for exports to 
MPEDA will help the industry and significantly improve the ease 
of doing business by offering a single window service to the 
stakeholders. 
Priority High