--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 17
Word Range: 3899 - 4148
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 17]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
17 
Proactive Market Promotion and Engagement: To keep up with the competition in the 
international markets, MPEDA enables participation of exporters in the International 
Seafood Fairs each year and organizes buyer -seller meets to help exporters expand 
their market and buyers. In addition, small export ers (export value less than USD 20 
million) receive financial assistance from MPEDA to participate in these fairs as co -
exhibitors. To augment this initiative,  MPEDA may consider segmenting beneficiary 
based on their needs and undertake segment specific market promotion activities such 
as buyer – seller meet in destination markets  (virtual and in -person), reverse buyer -
seller meets in India  for experienced marine exporters, enhanced fair participation for 
new exporters, and diversification of international fair participation to new emerging 
markets and deepening in existing markets by participating in regional food fairs.   
Adoption of digital and artificial intelligence-based solutions: With the reduced human 
resources as a reality, it becomes imperative to adopt intelligent digital solutions such 
as chatbot, decision-support system, blockchain and such tools to share information 
and communications regarding various initiatives of MPEDA. Redesign the MPEDA 
website and e-mpeda portal according to GIGW guideline to improve user experience 
of various stakeholders. 
Transformation of societies as FPOs: The National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture 
(NaCSA) can help the aquaculture farmer societies form as Farmer Producer 
Organisations (FPOs) to help access institutional finance and insurance and get better 
market access and price for their crops. This is cr itical as 90% of the Indian shrimp 
farmers belong to small -scale or marginal category with operational holdings of less 
than two hectare per individual. Further, tying up with Credit Guarantee Trust Fund 
for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) for farmers would help avail collateral-free 
loans.  
Augmenting human resources requirement in technical roles : The total sanctioned 
strength of MPEDA has been revised from 420 to 250 combining the Head Office and 
Field Offices. Out of this, the present resource in position is only 181 including 11 
officials on deputation. The existing staff is not be adequate to meet the growth 
objective of the sector. In this context, it is important to recalibrate human resources 
requirement in line with the sector requirements  and build their capacity to take up 
cross-functional roles while having a holistic view of the export ecosystem. 
Other recommendations include providing local language support in both online and 
physical application forms, leveraging the collective experience of MPEDA, a fee-based 
research service and market intelligence support can be offered to exporters, investors, 
etc. and focus on building quality branding and logo. 
These recommendations highlight the potential areas where MPEDA can further 
enhance its operations and its impact on marine export development.