--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MPEDA-004-C83
Parent Doc ID: A-MPEDA-004
Page Range: Page 100 to Page 101
Word Range: 23375 - 23624
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 100]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
100 
Scheme: Services by MPEDA QC & ELISA labs 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  Which lab services of MPEDA did 
you take up? 
(1) ELISA Lab for Pre-Harvest Tests 
(2) QC Lab – Microbiology test 
(3) QC Lab – Chemical Test for ﬁsh and 
ﬁsh products 
(4) QC Lab – Chemical Test for water 
(5) QC Lab – Special package for 
aquaculture farm and hatcheries 
2.  How often do you take the 
services of MPEDA labs? 
(1) Weekly 
(2) Monthly 
(3) Quarterly 
(4) Any other: _____  
3.  Have you used laboratory services 
apart from those offered by 
MPEDA? 
(1) Yes 
(2) No 
4.  If (1) Yes was selected,  
Please provide the name of the 
Laboratory. 
T ext 
5.  Which aspects of MPEDA labs do 
you like?  
(1) Responsive staff 
(2) Prompt update on test request and 
results 
(3) Reliable service – sample collection 
(4) Informed about non-compliant 
samples 
(5) Affordable Prices 
(6) Quick resolution of queries 
(7) Latest equipment 
(8) Others: ____ 
6.  Were there any delays in giving 
the test results? 
(1) Yes 
(2) No 
7.  If (1) Yes was selected,  
Please mention the extent of 
delay in number of days. 
 
8.  Which aspects of MPEDA labs you 
think would require improvement 
in comparison to other accredited 
labs? 
❑ Staff 
❑ Promptness of test updates 
❑ Sample collection 
❑ Testing fee 
❑ Resolution of queries 
❑ Service reliability 
❑ Information on non-compliant 
samples 
❑ Equipment 
❑ Others: _____

[Page 101]
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA 
101 
NaCSA  
A. Instruction to the interviewer 
The interviewer must start with his/her introduction and organization work. Secure the 
consent of the respondents to participate in the Focus Group Discussion (FGD) and share the 
correct estimated time required for this discussion and then start a question -answer session 
with the help of this questionnaire/guide. 
B. Introduction and Consent for the Interview 
Hello Sir/Madam! My name is ---------------- and I am working as a researcher with Athena 
Infonomics India Pvt. Ltd. 
As you would be aware, the Central Sector Scheme of Marine Products Export Development 
Authority (MPEDA) a flagship initiative of the Government of India to promote exports of 
marine products in the country. MPEDA offers various schemes like financial assi stance to 
support high-end or value-added products, financial assistance to move towards certification 
for primary production, financial assistance to set up Mini Labs, Training through different 
divisions and societies, Laboratory services, Certifications  for traceability and Assistance for 
technology incubation.  
For a systematic and comprehensive review, MPEDA has engaged Athena Infonomics India 
Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi to assess the Central Sector Scheme of MPEDA for the SFC period, 2017-
2020. The objective of the assessment is to (i) Evaluate the performance/effecti veness of the 
scheme; (ii) Assess the impact of the scheme; (iii) Identify the challenges in the implementation 
of the scheme; (iv) Evaluate the need and effectiveness of trainings; (v) Assess the ease of 
applying to the scheme and (vi) User-friendliness of the online portal of MPEDA. 
S No. Particulars Response 
1.  Name of interviewer  
 
2.  Date of interview  DD/MM/YYYY 
 
3.  Permission for interview granted.  (1) Yes 
(2) No 
 The place of Interview  (1) Within the premise of Field Office 
(2) Other/community  
4.  Respondent Name   
5.  District name  
 
6.  State name