--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-029-C03
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-029
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 601 - 912
Word Count: 312
--------------------

of Coimbatore District, through the G.O.Ms.No.1917, Revenue dated 31.08.1979. Bhavani, Erode and Sathyamangalam taluks were included in Coimbatore district which had a composite character, at the beginning of the century.” Erode district is located between 10°36" and 11°58" North Latitude and 76°49" and 77°58" East Longitude and it is landlocked district with Northern border at Karnataka, Eastern border at the districts of Namakkal and Karur, Southern and Western border at the Coimbatore and Nilgiri districts. The official website of the district mentions: “Erode District lies on the extreme north of Tamil Nadu. It is bounded mostly by Karnataka State and also River Palar covers pretty long distance. To the East lies Namakkal and Karur Districts. Tiruppur District is its immediate neighbour to the South and on the West, it has Coimbatore and Nilgiri Districts, as its boundaries. Thus Erode District is essentially a land-locked area having no sea-cost of its own. Erode District situated at between 10 36” and 11 58” North Latitude and between 76 49” and 77 58” East Longitude.” It is India's second largest turmeric market where first is Nizamabad as per the Department of Horticulture. Erode is a district of special significance on the industrial map of Tamil Nadu as it has centuries of long tradition of handloom, carpets and oil-pressing industries. Erode has the Vellode Bird Sanctuary where it hosts a large swampy area which houses migratory birds like pelicans, darters, teals and pintail ducks and it is best to visit the district between October to March. The Erode District website mentions: “It is at a large lake surrounded with semi-dark bushes near Vellode. This .772 km2 (0.298 sq mi) sanctuary is home to many foreign birds. The sanctuary features thousands of birds coming from various countries, some of which can be easily identified. Some easily found bird species include cormorants, teals, pintail ducks, pelicans, and darters.”