--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C09
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 2 to Page 3
Word Range: 2042 - 2291
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
4 mandates operators (importers) to exercise due diligence before 
placing any relevant products on the EU market. As outlined in Articles 
8, 9 and 10 of the EUDR, due diligence includes collecting and assessing 
large amounts of data, e. g. geolocation data and documents proving 
legal production. This data must be collected at the beginning of each 
supply chain, processed by various actors and stored by EU operators for 
at least five years. Producers that do not pass on the relevant information 
to importers will lose access to the EU market ( Susilawati and Kanowski, 
2022 ).
Recent work and the Strategic Framework for International Coop -
eration Engagement of the European Commission characterise the 
EUDR's environmental and social aims. Accordingly, the EUDR is said to 
reduce commodity-driven deforestation, forest degradation, associated 
biodiversity and climate impacts and promote sustainable practices 
( Beltrame de Moura, 2025 ; European Commission, 2024 ; Srivastava and 
Banerjee, 2025 ). Furthermore, the EU Commission envisions the EUDR 
as a tool to fulfil the SDG commitment and the Paris Agreement. The 
Regulation is also seen as an opportunity to enhance responsible trade 
and boost opportunities for inclusion and equity among actors around 
the globe ( Beltrame de Moura, 2025 ; European Commission, 2024 ; 
Linden et al., 2025 ).
Although the Regulation is well intended, its normative goals do not 
fully reflect the complex socio-economic realities of producer countries. 
Instead, they are influenced by a combination of the convictions and 
interests of NGOs, EU institutions and multinational businesses, while 
initially ignoring the perspectives of governments and smallholders in 
producer countries ( Berning and Sotirov, 2024 ; van Noordwijk et al., 
2025 ). It also fails to clarify who should pay for data collection and how 
the costs should be shared between the relevant parties ( Muradian et al., 
2025 ). We argue that in the absence of initiatives addressing imple -
mentation barriers ( Azevedo-Ramos and Lima, 2024 ), the EUDR could 
be at risk of issues such as supplier substitution and market shifts, as was 
observed with its predecessor, the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) 
( European Commission, 2023 ; K ¨othke et al., 2023 ; K ¨othke, 2020 ; Schulz 
et al., 2026 ). This in turn may jeopardise rather than promote sustain -
ability goals ( Beltrame de Moura, 2025 ).
Besides environmental and social aims, other important normative 
goals of the Regulation include traceability and transparency. A sub -
stantial body of literature has examined the benefits of transparent 
supply chains ( Gardner et al., 2019 ; Schilling-Vacaflor and Gustafsson, 
2024 ), particularly the EUDR's potential contribution to sustainable 
forest management, environmental governance and deforestation free 
and legal commodity supply chains. These include the reduction of 
global deforestation and forest degradation, the protection of biodiver -
sity, the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions as well as the promotion 
of legality and traceability of supply chains ( Cosimo et al., 2024 ; Dur ´an, 
2025 ; Johnston et al., 2025 ; Muradian et al., 2025 ; Tonou ´ewa et al., 
2024 ).
Existing literature has identified traceability as the core mechanism 
for effective forest governance and sustainable forest management 
( Mensah et al., 2025 ; Muradian et al., 2025 ; Tonou ´ewa et al., 2024 ). 
Traceability systems are thus necessary for achieving the zero- 
deforestation supply chain commitments ( Fripp et al., 2023 ). They 
link products and actors to origin, enabling accountability and 
enforcement along global commodity chains ( Gardner et al., 2019 ). 
Traceability technologies promote transparent markets, efficient forest 
resource management and reputational confidence ( Lima et al., 2025 ; 
Stopfer et al., 2024 ).
Although Cosimo et al. (2024) and Muradian et al. (2025) identified 
gaps in several existing traceability systems, other studies report that 
traceability systems such as certification have reduced illegal logging, 
improved sustainable practices, forest governance, enforcement of legal 
requirements, accountability and market efficiency ( Elias, 2024 ; Men -
sah et al., 2025 ). Miniarti et al. (2018) reported that the Indonesian 
Timber Legality Verification System has increased legality and sustain -
ability compliance in supply chains in the country. In the Amazon, 
innovative traceability technologies such as isotopic analysis or big data 
are seen as promising solutions to legality verification and reducing 
illegal logging ( Lima et al., 2025 ). Certification, third party-verification 
systems and traceability through due diligence systems in Europe have 
contributed to compliance with the EUTR ( Gavrilut et al., 2016 ). Heil -
mayr and Lambin (2016) reported a reduction in deforestation when 
certification was combined with stakeholder collaboration in Chile. 
However, Muradian et al. (2025) reported that these systems have failed 
to stop deforestation.
Against this backdrop, the EU Joint Research Centre has developed 
the EU Observatory on Deforestation and Forest Degradation to support 
global forest monitoring and contribute to stopping deforestation. Spe -
cifically, the EU Observatory provides global forest data to help opera -
tors and authorities assess the risk of deforestation and degradation and 
support due diligence ( Vogt and Caudullo, 2022 ). Furthermore, multi -
lateral agencies and organisations like the International Trade Centre, 
Fraunhofer Institute for Material Flow and Logistics and the Food and 
Agriculture Organisation are developing platforms to support data 
collection for EUDR compliance ( FAO, 2024 ; Frauenhofer, 2023 ; Inter -
national Trade Center, I, 2024 ). However, these tools mainly focus on 
the deforestation aspect of the EUDR. Therefore, producers must still 
provide the legal information required, as outlined in the EUDR Guid -
ance documents ( European Commission, 2025a ). Moreover, producers 
require expertise to operate the tools, collect data and pass it on to their 
EU-based customers. Likewise, EU operators require expertise or third- 
party assistance to apply EUDR-compliant due diligence systems. All 
these come at a cost that must be borne by the supply chain actors.
Although essential to the Regulation's objectives, data requirements 
of the EUDR raise two under-examined issues. First, who pays for the 
cost of collecting data for compliance? Compliance costs for importers 
arise from setting up and applying a due diligence system, submitting 
due diligence statements and complying with public reporting and data 
retention obligations ( Rijk and Kuepper, 2024 ). In addition, producers 
face substantial costs when gathering information on legality and geo -
location ( Mabica et al., 2025 ). Second, what happens to the data 
collected for compliance?
Our study builds on these perspectives by analysing through an 
economic lens the implications of data requirements for compliance for 
producers and EU importers. It also offers insight into opportunities for 
monetising producers' data to offset costs of collecting data and to 
ensure that the Regulation supports not only environmental integrity, 
but also inclusive and sustainable trade.
2. Distribution of cost and data monetisation
How the costs are distributed can depend on supply and demand 
elasticities as well as political factors such as the actors' bargaining 
power or their capacity to strategically reposition within supply chains. 
This section focuses on the former and examines how elasticities influ -
ence the distribution of costs and explores the opportunities for data 
monetisation. The latter ranges from basic data sales to optimising 
market performance through complex data-driven services ( Ritala et al., 
2024 ). Ultimately, this analysis aims to provide insights into sustainable 
cost recovery strategies within EUDR-regulated supply chains. It is 
important to emphasise that producers are heterogeneous ( Susilawati 
et al., 2019 ; Susilawati and Kanowski, 2022 ; Zhunusova et al., 2022 ). 
Hence, compliance costs and capabilities may differ widely between 
small-scale producers, out-growers and large companies, the type of 
product and even the risk category of the country ( Directorate-General 
for Environment, 2025 ; van Noordwijk et al., 2025 ; Wolff and 
Schweinle, 2022 ). While our analysis remains at the conceptual level, 
further studies could empirically examine the actual cost implications 
and distributional effects among different actors once EUDR imple -
mentation begins.
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
2

[Page 3]
2.1. The less elastic supply chain actors bear the brunt
The administrative costs added by the EUDR to the supply chain have 
a similar effect as an import tax. The distribution of the cost between 
producers and importers is affected by the elasticity of the commodities' 
supply and demand functions. As we illustrate in Box 1 , the supply chain 
actor that is less elastic, i.e. reacts less strongly to the compliance cost, 
will bear the greater share of the costs. Cases when inelastic supply 
meets elastic demand (scenario B in Fig. 1 ) may be particularly worrying 
because of the social implications that a decreasing producer price may 
have, especially for smallholders ( Azevedo-Ramos and Lima, 2024 ). 
Inelastic supply is typical for commodities for which producers have 
locked-in path dependencies, such as perennial crops which do not allow 
for swift reactions.
Apart from price effects, there may also be quantity effects to look 
out for. When both supply and demand functions are elastic, the com -
modity market may contract due to the additional cost, providing room 
for a substitute crop (scenario D in Fig. 1 ). This is of concern especially 
when a commodity regulated by the EUDR, such as coffee in Latin 
America, is easily supplanted by an illicit crop such as coca ( Grisaffi 
et al., 2021 ). However, which of the four scenarios applies to a certain 
case will depend on the specificities of regional production systems and 
their commodity and substitute markets.
2.2. Possibilities for data monetisation
To cushion or even avoid the undesirable effects administrative costs 
can entail, there is need to explore whether the cost could be recuper -
ated. One possibility could be to develop a market for data monetisation. 
Data monetisation refers to the commercialisation of data and infor -
mation assets to yield financial returns like selling data or analytics- 
based services or improving operations, products or pricing ( Ofulue 
and Benyoucef, 2024 ; Zhang et al., 2023 ).
Opportunities for data monetisation can be placed on a continuum 
ranging from insight to foresight. This continuum demonstrates how 
data can be converted and translated to aggregated data driven insight 
to gain relevant information about farming practices, new markets, 
business opportunities and entry points that would otherwise be inac -
cessible ( Chamorro-Padial et al., 2025 ). Following Ritala et al. (2024) , 
the information requirements of the EUDR [Art. 9] and referring to the 
cocoa value chain as an example, in Fig. 2 we highlight four opportu -
nities of monetising data. Table 1 provides a more detailed analysis of 
the data requirements, necessary capabilities, potential risks and 
required safeguards. Moving from left to right along the continuum 
( Fig. 2 ), stratification and complexity of the data layers increase, adding 
value to potential products: 
1) Data as a product involves selling raw or processed data in an 
aggregated format. As an example, a producer organisation could 
analyse cocoa producers' data by region, production practices, 
productivity, etc. to create meaningful insights on cocoa key per -
formance indicators (KPIs). Similarly, extension services, non- 
governmental organisations (NGOs) and research institutions could 
use data insights to train models to recognise large-scale patterns or 
to target their efforts on farmers who would benefit from their ser -
vices ( Atik, 2022 ; Chamorro-Padial et al., 2025 ).
2) A data enhanced product adds additional value-enhancing informa -
tion and insights. For example, chocolate manufacturers could pro -
vide supplementary insights into their products by adding 
information about the origin of the cocoa beans and the production 
practices to their labels. This would enable them to accrue a pre -
mium price.
3) Data driven services use insights from multiple sources of data to 
develop a solution to address problems or render services. Data 
insight on production behaviour can help predict future behaviour of 
producers to develop a service or a product that solves production 
problems ( Bataineh et al., 2020 ). For instance, insurance providers 
could use data insights to identify high-risk areas and adjust pre -
miums accordingly. Investors looking for new land acquisitions 
could use insights to inform their decisions and prospective invest -
ment returns.
4) Data driven performance outcomes combine stages of the contin -
uum, e.g. cocoa production practices, consumer preferences and 
market trends to provide insights and improve performance out -
comes ( Lepenioti et al., 2020 ). Companies can use data to optimise 
products and resources, enhance customer experience and track 
long-term trends to anticipate market demands and refine their of -
ferings. Researchers and policymakers can use data insights to pre -
dict production and behavioural patterns and inform evidence-based 
decisions that drive productivity and sustainability ( Uyar et al., 
2024 ).
However, transforming data into a marketable commodity requires 
strong data capabilities, including data literacy and technological know- 
how. It also requires upfront investment in research and development, as 
well as digital technologies and safeguards to address potential risks 
( Bataineh et al., 2020 ; Markfort et al., 2022 ; O'Hara, 2020 ; Steinke et al., 
2024 ; Sweeney, 2002 ). In addition, measures to secure data from 
unauthorised access can cause substantial investment costs ( Gopal et al., 
2024 ). Table 1 presents an analysis of the minimum data required for 
each stage of the continuum, data capability needs, potential data 
buyers, risks and example safeguards.
3. Data protection
Scholars have warned that data can be (mis)used for surveillance, 
commercial exploitation, or even political influence ( Zuboff, 2020 ). As 
the People‘s Republic of China‘s president Xi Jinping allegedly said some 
years ago, “ whoever controls data will have the initiative ” ( Wei, 2021 ). 
Indeed, the EU, China, and the USA have created three major data 
Box 1
Distributional effects of compliance costs
We assume there is a market on which commodity producers are the suppliers and EU importers represent the demand side. Fig. 1 shows four 
different scenarios with differing assumptions on supply and demand elasticities. In each scenario, there is an initial market equilibrium ( P
0
, Q
0
). 
Adding the compliance cost shifts the supply curve upward ( S
0 
to S
1
, the shift is identical across all four scenarios of Fig. 1 ). This shift results in a 
new equilibrium with the demand curve, with a resulting decrease in quantity from Q
0 
to Q
1
, and diverging prices for suppliers ( P
1
producers
) and 
importers ( P
1
importers
). The magnitudes of the quantity and price effects depend on the supply and demand elasticities.
In scenarios A and D of Fig. 1 , the burden of the compliance cost is shared equally between producers and importers because the supply and 
demand elasticities are equal in absolute terms. In the other two scenarios, the burden is higher for the supply chain actors with the less elastic 
supply, i.e. in scenario B, the producers have a higher burden and in scenario C, importers bear the brunt.
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
3