--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C23
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 6 to Page 7
Word Range: 5614 - 5863
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 6]
effective functioning and independence, and the international commit -
ment to the development of data protection [GDPR Art. 45(2)].
Fig. 3 shows that, in 2023, 84% of the EU's imports of EUDR-relevant 
commodities came from jurisdictions without adequate data protection 
under EU law ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ). Specifically, 70% of 
these jurisdictions have laws and/or authorities that are not deemed 
adequate, 4% have no laws and 10% have laws that are only partially 
adequate. Only 16% originated from adequate data protection regimes. 
In other words, for every € 1 sourced from adequate jurisdictions, about 
€ 5.25 come from non-adequate sources. This situation may increase 
risks regarding data privacy and -exploitation outside EU-adequate 
frameworks.
We assume that without adequate laws, the prospects for effective 
protection of producers' data for EUDR compliance are grim. This may 
open doors to potential data exploitation, commercialisation of essential 
sustainability information and unauthorised use of data that, for 
example, may inform those who pursue land grabbing intentions. To 
avoid these risks, while still recognising producers' cost burdens, we 
separate two categories for potential data monetisation:
Tier one is the core compliance data of the EUDR, e.g. geolocation 
and legality documentation, which serves a public-interest oversight 
function. This tier could enable regulatory oversight for monitoring, 
environmental protection and market entry and should not be sold. We 
propose monetisation of tier two data, which concerns value-added and 
anonymised analytics that employ aggregated benchmarking, advisory 
scores and optimisation tools derived from multiple data sources. 
Monetisation of tier two could be considered if safeguards such as those 
outlined in Table 1 are met.
4. Discussion
Above, we argued that the commercialisation of data collected for 
EUDR compliance could be an opportunity for producer countries. 
However, selling data may still be a bumpy rather than a smooth road to 
success. Initial efforts to sell data, like Microsoft's Azure DataMarket 
(launched 2010) and Kasabi (started in 2011, discontinued in 2012) 
failed due to low enterprise interest and difficulties in addressing 
diversified data requirements ( Johnston, 2022 ). Presently, the data 
market is gaining traction as revealed by a recent empirical study of 451 
data-driven organisations. More than a third of the respondents (38%), 
see data monetisation as one of their top five strategic priorities for the 
next three years ( Johnston, 2022 ).
Our analysis further revealed that a large volume of commodities 
regulated by the EUDR is exported by countries with weak governance 
arrangements on data protection ( CNIL, 2024a ). This is reason for 
concern because the EU's rigid one-size-fits-all compliance requirements 
are placing producers in a dilemma in which they are urged into 
providing data despite having concerns over the security of sensitive 
commercial and personal information ( Sevilla et al., 2025 ).
Viewed through this lens, the EUDR may be perpetuating power 
asymmetries by dictating trade rules to producers ( Samriddhi, 2025 ). 
Some authors describe this as the coloniality of mandating behavioural 
change, where the colonial legacy continues to influence the distribution 
of power and shapes decisions ( Collins et al., 2021 ; Kuhl et al., 2025 ). 
This situation as observed deepens inequalities and vulnerabilities as 
decision-making becomes external to the local context, leading to more 
global injustice ( Collins et al., 2021 ; Kuhl et al., 2025 ; Manahan et al., 
2024 ). Regulations such as the EUDR may thus fail to achieve their 
objectives and encourage redirection of non-compliant goods towards 
markets with lower sustainability requirements ( Sevilla et al., 2025 ).
We argue that producer countries and regional as well as subregional 
bodies could co-design a more robust multi-level ethical data gover -
nance and management regime for effective compliance with sustain -
ability requirements ( Liu, 2022 ; Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ; Steinke 
et al., 2024 ).
A multi-level approach could foster consistency, improve efficiency 
and avoid fragmentation across jurisdictions ( OECD, 2019 ). However, 
care must be taken to avoid static regulations and rather design an 
adaptive governance framework that is sufficiently flexible to cater for 
rapid developments especially in the artificial intelligence domain 
( Sayan and Bueechl, 2025 ).
Within such a framework, producer country governments could step 
up their efforts in harmonising and developing robust data protection 
regimes ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ). This could be about turning 
EUDR compliance from a high-cost obligation into a win-win situation, 
protecting producers‘rights and enhancing benefits ( Wilhelm, 2024 ) A 
priority will be to harmonise basic privacy rules, establishing consistent 
provisions for cross-border data flows and consenting to the access and 
use of data ( Babalola, 2024 ; Delacroix and Lawrence, 2019 ). A second 
approach is building shared compliance data spaces such as national 
registries for geolocation, like in the case of Brazil, to enable verification 
of compliance ( Jung et al., 2017 ; Sevilla et al., 2025 ) without central -
ising raw producer data or compromising confidentiality ( Dembani 
et al., 2025 ; McDermott et al., 2025 ). Third, producer countries should 
Fig. 3. Share of value of EUDR relevant imports from countries with (in)adequate data protection laws based on UN Comtrade data for the year 2023 and CNIL data, 
Source: ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ).
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
6

[Page 7]
address corruption to gain recognition for audits and credibility of cer -
tification schemes anchored in sustainability standards and conformity 
assessments ( Castka et al., 2023 ; Hassani et al., 2021 ; Nygaard, 2023 ). 
This would cut duplicative costs for audits and facilitate trade with the 
EU as well as other trade partners ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ; Pham 
et al., 2025 ).
At the international level, regional bodies such as the African Union, 
ASEAN or sub-regional economic communities could increase efforts to 
develop new frameworks that support producer countries in developing 
consistent data governance regimes. First, regional bodies could estab -
lish a forum of data-protection authorities to coordinate enforcement 
and redress ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ). Thus, producers are not 
locked into bespoke buyer terms. Second, programs like the EU's Team 
Europe Initiative could upscale support for producers through measures 
such as training programs and joint procurement of traceability tools 
( Burni et al., 2022 ; Directorate-General for International Partnerships, 
2023 ; McDermott et al., 2025 ; Steinke et al., 2024 ). While participation 
in these initiatives is at the discretion of the producer countries [EUDR- 
Recital 29], broader awareness-raising by the EU is imperative to 
encourage wider coverage and ensure the fair and inclusive imple -
mentation of the Regulation ( Srivastava and Banerjee, 2025 ). Similarly, 
producer countries should collaborate with the EU for expanded and 
targeted technical and financial support through existing initiatives to 
develop robust traceability systems ( Muradian et al., 2025 ; Srivastava 
and Banerjee, 2025 ). For instance, together with the EU, producer 
countries could define clear requirements for the data and documents 
needed for each country, like the Country Conclusions and Country 
Profile, developed for some countries under the EUTR ( EUTR Expert 
Group, 2020 ; UNEP-WCMC, 2018 ). Finally, any data monetisation 
should be paired with benefit-sharing, producer consent and sovereign 
oversight to avoid undesirable outcomes in the growing field of data 
transfer ( Gani and Marshall, 2022 ). Specifically, benefit-sharing mech -
anisms could be executed by producer-controlled intermediaries e.g., 
cooperatives or data trusts, that set purpose-limited access and use 
conditions for shared datasets ( Delacroix and Lawrence, 2019 ; 
ˇ
Sestak 
and Copot, 2023 ; van der Burg et al., 2021 ). Likewise, buyers of data- 
enhanced claims or services can adopt revenue-sharing contracts with 
explicit minimum producer shares e.g., a certain percentage of ex- 
factory price or net surplus, and transparent escrowed payouts, consis -
tent with supply chain coordination literature and cooperative-centred 
models (
ˇ
Sestak and Copot, 2023 ; van der Burg et al., 2021 ).
5. Conclusions
The EUDR has been analysed through different lenses e.g. human 
right and environmental due diligence ( Solar et al., 2025 ) or radical 
transformation ( Verhaeghe and Ramcilovic-Suominen, 2024 ), and 
compared to other supply chain legislations and voluntary sustainability 
standards ( Cosimo et al., 2024 ; Partzsch, 2025 ). This article comple -
ments existing work by applying an economic lens to analyse the im -
plications of compliance data requirements. We investigated how the 
distribution of the administrative cost depends on the supply and de -
mand elasticities, outlined possibilities for data monetisation and 
assessed data protection issues. We derive the following four main 
conclusions:
Firstly, in our small comparative statics analysis, we found that the 
compliance cost may give rise to unintended price and quantity effects. 
Price effects play out especially if consumers are elastic, i.e. can quickly 
shift to a substitute product while producers are confronted with path 
dependencies. Quantity effects are of concern when producers' supply is 
elastic and the substitute is an illicit commodity. We recommend that EU 
and producer country governments should vigilantly observe for such 
undesirable shifts. Counter measures could include EU co-financing of 
compliance cost or programs to support the cultivation of legal substi -
tute commodities. However, it is important to note that this analysis was 
done from a forward-looking perspective and remains purely 
conceptual. Prior to the implementation of the EUDR, the findings of the 
comparative statics analysis obviously cannot be tested empirically.
Secondly, we discuss data monetisation as a potential way to offset 
producer costs of collecting EUDR compliance data. However, this 
pathway requires very careful consideration of the risks outlined. While 
selling data can be an opportunity, it is key that this business is con -
ducted under a robust data governance framework that was deliberated 
with producers, especially in contexts of still nascent and emerging 
national data laws and authorities.
Thirdly, empirical evidence on whether analytics materially offset 
compliance costs without creating privacy concerns ( Liu, 2022 ) or eq -
uity risks remains limited. We therefore recommend pilot projects with 
independent evaluation before data commercialisation. This will help to 
ensure that progress on the EUDR is consistent with fairness, inclusion 
and the broader aims of sustainable global value chains.
Fourthly, we argue that data justice is a relevant instrument with 
various dimensions: procedural, instrumental, distributive, rights-based 
and structural ( Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ). It can be defined as ‘fairness 
in the way people are made visible, represented and treated as a result of 
their production of digital data ’ ( Taylor, 2017 ) and revolves around 
giving people choices of being (in)visible, (dis)engaging with technol -
ogy as well as antidiscrimination. We emphasise data justice as a focal 
point for governance. Hence, integrating it into extension work and 
raising awareness on data rights and responsibilities among producers 
could advance fair use and equitable benefit sharing ( Ofulue and 
Benyoucef, 2024 ; Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ).
Future research could evaluate the benefits of traceability-based 
datafication of sustainability transition policies and the potential of 
jurisdictional approaches to reduce compliance complexity for small -
holders. Furthermore, research should explore privacy-preserving data 
technologies to strengthen protection and fairness in the use of big data 
( Tajabadi et al., 2024 ). Finally, producer countries, especially African 
countries, should see the EUDR as an opportunity to strengthen regional 
integration and to focus more on intra-continental trade, to prospec -
tively reduce dependency on foreign trade partners like the EU.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Lydia Afriyie-Kraft: Writing – original draft, Methodology, Inves -
tigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Astrid Zabel: Writing – 
original draft, Supervision, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization. 
Thomas Breu: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding 
acquisition.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal re -
lationships which may be considered as potential competing interests: 
Professor Thomas Breu reports financial support was provided by Velux 
Stiftung. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This research was supported by the Velux Stiftung Grant number 
2157.
Data availability 
No data was used for the research described in the article.
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
7