--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-EUDR-100-C03
Parent Doc ID: A-EUDR-100
Page Range: Page 5 to Page 6
Word Range: 3415 - 5262
Word Count: 1,848
--------------------

[Page 5]
personal and non-personal data within the EU. It also clarifies the con -
ditions of processing, adding value and transferring data outside of the 
EU ( Regulation (EU) 2023/2854, 2023 ).
Thus, while the EU is meticulous about data security when trans -
ferring personal data from EU citizens to third countries, data security in 
third countries is of lesser concern to the EU when requesting the 
collection of sustainability information. Indeed, compared to EU stan -
dards, the data protection laws in countries producing EUDR-relevant 
commodities are often far less stringent, if existent at all ( Chamorro- 
Padial et al., 2025 ).
In 2023, the EU imported € 115 billion worth of EUDR-relevant 
commodities from 207 countries and territories outside of the EU 
( United Nations, 2024 ). Fig. 3 shows the share of this total value origi -
nating from countries with differing levels of data protection adequacy 
as defined by the EU ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ). Data ade -
quacy implies a level of protection that is substantially equivalent to that 
in the EU, allowing the transfer of EU citizens' personal data to that 
country without additional requirements ( CNIL, 2024a ; Greenleaf and 
Cottier, 2022 ). In evaluating a third country's data adequacy, the EU 
considers its respect for the rule of law, the supervisory authority's 
Table 1 
Cocoa use-case framework for EUDR compliance data monetisation.
d
Monetisation 
mode
Illustrative cocoa 
use-case
a,c
EUDR-relevant 
data
Minimum data 
requirements
g
Capabilities 
needed
f
Value mechanism 
(who pays/why)
j
Potential risks
b,e,i
Safeguards
1) Data as a 
product
Producer data set e. 
g. region, practice, 
productivity, yield 
gaps
Geolocation of 
plots, legality and 
traceability 
documents
Cleaned, 
aggregated, 
anonymised 
cocoa farmers' 
data
Data governance, 
anonymisation or 
aggregation, 
metadata 
management, 
upfront 
investment
Government 
agencies, research 
institutions, NGOs, 
traders for 
benchmarking and 
targeting, train 
model about large 
scale patterns
Re -identification, 
misuse beyond 
license scope, 
exploitation, 
privacy violations
Aggregation 
thresholds, 
anonymisation, audits, 
consent registry, Data 
use/sharing agreement 
(DUA), prohibit 
incompatible re-use, 
fair benefit sharing e.g. 
grant free access of raw 
data, option to 
withdraw
2) Data- 
enhanced 
product
Chocolate Stock 
Keeping Unit (SKU) 
with verified 
origin, farm- 
practice attributes 
on package
Verified 
geolocation, 
traceability and 
legality evidence
Attribute model 
linking batch to 
farms, 
verification track
Attribute 
verification, label 
governance, 
consent 
management
Consumers pay 
price premium for 
origin & 
sustainability claim
Greenwashing, 
loss of consumer 
and investor trust
Third-party 
verification, claims 
standard, independent 
audits, QR-code linked 
disclosure
3) Data-driven 
services
Production and 
practice history, 
weather or remote- 
sensing data, risk 
scoring for 
insurance or 
investors, advisory 
that tailors inputs 
to predict 
behaviour
Aggregated 
geolocation and 
legality data 
packages
Explainability 
outputs and 
performance 
baselines
Machine-learning 
modelling & 
validation
Insurers, investors, 
NGOs etc. for risk 
management 
solutions, accurate 
demand forecast, 
risk pricing or yield 
uplift
Discriminatory/ 
biased pricing, 
model drift, opaque 
decisions
Explainability/ 
interpretability 
reviews, restrict non- 
EU transfers where 
protection is 
inadequate, blockchain 
technology, Internet of 
Things
4)
h
Data-driven 
performance 
outcomes
Portfolio 
optimisation using 
fused farm, market 
and consumer data
Automatic risk 
assessment, farm- 
factory 
traceability, 
legality and 
sustainability key 
performance 
indicators (KPIs)
Fused multi- 
source datasets, 
scenario library, 
decision rules 
linked to profit 
and loss
Data 
warehousing, 
optimisation, 
scenario 
analytics, change 
management
Cost improvements 
and strategic 
advantage
Competitive 
sensitivity, 
coordination 
failures
Data-sharing contracts, 
role-based access, 
change governance, 
code of conduct, 
regular audits, 
blockchain
The four monetisation modes follow established business to business (B2B) data-value typologies to translate and monetise the generated EUDR compliance data 
( Ritala et al., 2024 ). The EUDR-relevant data inputs reflect the Regulation's geolocation and legality requirements. Safeguards draw on the General Data Protection 
Regulation, compatible anonymisation principles, the EU Data Act and the OECD – FAO due-diligence guidance for contractual controls, verification and disclosure.
a
EUDR relevant data: Operators must collect geolocation of plot of harvest/production and legality/traceability documentation prior to placing products on the EU 
market ( European Commission, 2025b ; Regulation (EU) 2023/1115 ).
b
Data sharing & contracts: EU Data Act sets fair-access and use conditions for non-personal data, supporting Data Use Agreements, purpose limitation and role-based 
access ( Regulation (EU) 2016/679 ; Regulation (EU) 2023/2854, 2023 ; 
ˇ
Sestak and Copot, 2023 ; van der Burg et al., 2021 ).
c
Due-diligence system: OECD – FAO Business Handbook details steps of risk-based due diligence, traceability/geolocation, supplier documentation and verification 
and disclosure of good practice ( OECD/FAO, 2023 ).
d
Monetisation modes: The four-part typology, data as a product, data-enhanced product, data-driven services, data-driven performance outcomes are driven from 
Ritala et al. (2024) .
e
Anonymisation/aggregation: The k-anonymity and related controls are used to reduce re-identification risks when sharing or aggregating producer data ( Sweeney, 
2002 ).
f
Who pays: Consumers pay premiums for traceability/sustainability claim. On-pack/QR-code disclosure is a recognised channel to convey verified attributes 
( Chamorro-Padial et al., 2025 ; Li et al., 2024 ; Tran et al., 2024 ).
g
Risk analytics: Machine-learning for supply-chain risk requires model validation/monitoring via explainability/ interpretability to avoid bias and ensure reliable 
scores for insurers/investors who might want to buy aggregated data ( Nezianya et al., 2024 ).
h
Performance outcomes: Digital traceability and integrated data flows improve operational efficiency/quality and support portfolio optimisation and performance 
management ( Verna et al., 2025 ).
i
Considerations for the data subjects and benefit sharing ( Delacroix and Lawrence, 2019 ; O'Hara, 2020 ; Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ; 
ˇ
Sestak and Copot, 2023 ).
j
Potential risks: Inconsistent or misleading claims, data breaches, or opaque models can erode consumer trust and investor confidence. Linking data attributes can 
help re-identify producers, exposing them to targeted exploitation ( Barocas and Selbst, 2016 ; Delmas and Burbano, 2011 ; Rudin, 2019 ; Sweeney, 2002 ; van der Burg 
et al., 2021 ).
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
5

[Page 6]
effective functioning and independence, and the international commit -
ment to the development of data protection [GDPR Art. 45(2)].
Fig. 3 shows that, in 2023, 84% of the EU's imports of EUDR-relevant 
commodities came from jurisdictions without adequate data protection 
under EU law ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ). Specifically, 70% of 
these jurisdictions have laws and/or authorities that are not deemed 
adequate, 4% have no laws and 10% have laws that are only partially 
adequate. Only 16% originated from adequate data protection regimes. 
In other words, for every € 1 sourced from adequate jurisdictions, about 
€ 5.25 come from non-adequate sources. This situation may increase 
risks regarding data privacy and -exploitation outside EU-adequate 
frameworks.
We assume that without adequate laws, the prospects for effective 
protection of producers' data for EUDR compliance are grim. This may 
open doors to potential data exploitation, commercialisation of essential 
sustainability information and unauthorised use of data that, for 
example, may inform those who pursue land grabbing intentions. To 
avoid these risks, while still recognising producers' cost burdens, we 
separate two categories for potential data monetisation:
Tier one is the core compliance data of the EUDR, e.g. geolocation 
and legality documentation, which serves a public-interest oversight 
function. This tier could enable regulatory oversight for monitoring, 
environmental protection and market entry and should not be sold. We 
propose monetisation of tier two data, which concerns value-added and 
anonymised analytics that employ aggregated benchmarking, advisory 
scores and optimisation tools derived from multiple data sources. 
Monetisation of tier two could be considered if safeguards such as those 
outlined in Table 1 are met.
4. Discussion
Above, we argued that the commercialisation of data collected for 
EUDR compliance could be an opportunity for producer countries. 
However, selling data may still be a bumpy rather than a smooth road to 
success. Initial efforts to sell data, like Microsoft's Azure DataMarket 
(launched 2010) and Kasabi (started in 2011, discontinued in 2012) 
failed due to low enterprise interest and difficulties in addressing 
diversified data requirements ( Johnston, 2022 ). Presently, the data 
market is gaining traction as revealed by a recent empirical study of 451 
data-driven organisations. More than a third of the respondents (38%), 
see data monetisation as one of their top five strategic priorities for the 
next three years ( Johnston, 2022 ).
Our analysis further revealed that a large volume of commodities 
regulated by the EUDR is exported by countries with weak governance 
arrangements on data protection ( CNIL, 2024a ). This is reason for 
concern because the EU's rigid one-size-fits-all compliance requirements 
are placing producers in a dilemma in which they are urged into 
providing data despite having concerns over the security of sensitive 
commercial and personal information ( Sevilla et al., 2025 ).
Viewed through this lens, the EUDR may be perpetuating power 
asymmetries by dictating trade rules to producers ( Samriddhi, 2025 ). 
Some authors describe this as the coloniality of mandating behavioural 
change, where the colonial legacy continues to influence the distribution 
of power and shapes decisions ( Collins et al., 2021 ; Kuhl et al., 2025 ). 
This situation as observed deepens inequalities and vulnerabilities as 
decision-making becomes external to the local context, leading to more 
global injustice ( Collins et al., 2021 ; Kuhl et al., 2025 ; Manahan et al., 
2024 ). Regulations such as the EUDR may thus fail to achieve their 
objectives and encourage redirection of non-compliant goods towards 
markets with lower sustainability requirements ( Sevilla et al., 2025 ).
We argue that producer countries and regional as well as subregional 
bodies could co-design a more robust multi-level ethical data gover -
nance and management regime for effective compliance with sustain -
ability requirements ( Liu, 2022 ; Ruder and Wittman, 2025 ; Steinke 
et al., 2024 ).
A multi-level approach could foster consistency, improve efficiency 
and avoid fragmentation across jurisdictions ( OECD, 2019 ). However, 
care must be taken to avoid static regulations and rather design an 
adaptive governance framework that is sufficiently flexible to cater for 
rapid developments especially in the artificial intelligence domain 
( Sayan and Bueechl, 2025 ).
Within such a framework, producer country governments could step 
up their efforts in harmonising and developing robust data protection 
regimes ( Greenleaf and Cottier, 2022 ). This could be about turning 
EUDR compliance from a high-cost obligation into a win-win situation, 
protecting producers‘rights and enhancing benefits ( Wilhelm, 2024 ) A 
priority will be to harmonise basic privacy rules, establishing consistent 
provisions for cross-border data flows and consenting to the access and 
use of data ( Babalola, 2024 ; Delacroix and Lawrence, 2019 ). A second 
approach is building shared compliance data spaces such as national 
registries for geolocation, like in the case of Brazil, to enable verification 
of compliance ( Jung et al., 2017 ; Sevilla et al., 2025 ) without central -
ising raw producer data or compromising confidentiality ( Dembani 
et al., 2025 ; McDermott et al., 2025 ). Third, producer countries should 
Fig. 3. Share of value of EUDR relevant imports from countries with (in)adequate data protection laws based on UN Comtrade data for the year 2023 and CNIL data, 
Source: ( CNIL, 2024a ; United Nations, 2024 ).
L. Afriyie-Kraft et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Policy and Economics 184 (2026) 103709 
6