--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C79
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 39
Word Range: 20745 - 21089
Word Count: 345
--------------------

[Page 39]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 103
(2) V ocalization is an indicator of animal discomfort and need to be watched for.
(3) Use of electric pods for moving animal should be discouraged. Movement of animals can be managed by
grouping, use of plastic wrapped sticks etc.
(4) Pen stocking density should be monitored. All animals should have room to lie down simultaneously. The
condition of animals arriving for slaughter should be closely monitored so that injured, diseased animals are not
slaughtered.
(5) High pitch sounds such as whistling and yelling should be avoided to spare distress to animals.
b. The following factors have been identified as critical to animal welfare:
(a) supervision and training of employees.
(b) Designing of animal transport cart and unloading bay.
(c) Proper construction of holding/resting pen, stunning box, maintenance of stunning equipment,
restraining systems, gates and other animal handling equipment.
(d) Avoiding distractions that make animals refuse to move.
(e) Monitoring the condition of animals arriving at the plant.
(f) Proper design of equipment in the slaughter house.
Keeping this in view, the following need to be observed to ensure humane treatment of animals brought for
slaughter:—
z Pre-slaughter handling of animal should be carefully done to reduce stress. Resting of the animals is
essential. Only animals which are disease free and in a condition to walk should be brought for
slaughter.
z Distractions that impede animal movements such as, reflections, air blowing towards animals and
movement or high pitch noise, need to be avoided. Herding of animals should not be done through
electric prods but with the help of plastic bags or sticks.
z A high standard of training is required for employees to ensure that the basic hygiene and safety
practices are followed while handling animals.
z Equipment which is used for slaughter such as captive bolt stunner, gates, hooks etc should be kept
in good working condition and cleanliness of floors etc. needs to be ensured. There should be daily
check to ensure the smooth working of equipment and cleanliness of floors.
z The condition of the animals arriving at the plant should be monitored. Animals which are injured or
not in a condition to walk should not be slaughtered.
z Inspecting personnel should pay particular attention to these points to ensure reasonable standards
of animal welfare.
6. Poultry welfare:
Welfare programme
The conditions under which broilers are housed and the way that they are managed during their growing
phase, transportation and slaughter are set down in several government/industry endorsed Model Codes of Practice
designed to safeguard their welfare.
A model welfare program needs to be developed for pick-up, transport and broiler/chicken processing sectors.
Processing unit shall incorporate elements of this welfare audit in their own quality plans and manuals.
A Model programme shall envisage following:
Poultry Suppliers and processors must have a documented program for poultry welfare envisaging following;
(a) Catching: Poultry intended for slaughter plant should be clean and in good health. Every reasonable
precaution should be taken to minimize injury to poultry. The catcher needs to be trained to this effect.
(b) Transport: For transport of poultry crates shall be in good repair. There shall be no crate/cage
damage that would allow injury to poultry or allow crates to accidentally open. Transport crates should not be
over-filled and enough space should be provided to allow all poultry to lie down.