--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C41
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 25
Word Range: 10621 - 10870
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 25]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 89
Part-II
(See Regulation 2.1.1(4))
General Requirements on Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by all Food Business Operators applying for
License
The establishment in which food is being handled, processed, manufactured, packed, stored, and distributed by the
food business operator and the persons handling them should conform to the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food
safety measures and other standards as specified below. It shall also be deemed to be the responsibility of the food
business operator to ensure adherence to necessary requirements.
In addition to the requirements specified below, the food business operator shall identify steps in the activities of
food business, which are critical to ensure food safety, and ensure that safety procedures are identified, implemented,
maintained and reviewed periodically.
1 LOCATION AND SURROUNDINGS
1.1 Food Establishment shall ideally be located away from environmental pollution and industrial activities that
produce disagreeable or obnoxious odour, fumes, excessive soot, dust, smoke, chemical or biological emissions and
pollutants, and which pose a threat of contaminating food areas that are prone to infestations of pests or  where wastes,
either solid or liquid, cannot be removed effectively.
1.2 In case there are hazards of other environment polluting industry located nearby, appropriate measures should
be taken to protect the manufacturing area from any potential contamination.
1.3 The manufacturing premise should not have direct access to any residential area.
2 LAYOUT AND DESIGN OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES
As far as possible, the layout of the food establishment shall be such that food preparation / manufacturing
processes are not amenable to cross-contamination from other pre and post manufacturing operations like goods receiving,
pre-processing (viz. packaging, washing / portioning of ready-to-eat food etc).
2.1Floors, ceilings and walls must be maintained in a sound condition to minimize the accumulation of dirt,
condensation and growth of undesirable moulds. They should be made of impervious material and should be smooth and
easy to clean with no flaking paint or plaster.
2.2Doors shall also be made of smooth and non-absorbent surfaces so that they are easy to clean and wherever
necessary, disinfect.
2.3The floor of food processing / food service area shall have adequate and proper drainage and shall be easy to
clean and where necessary, disinfect.  Floors shall be sloped appropriately to facilitate drainage and the drainage shall
flow in a direction opposite to the direction of food preparation / manufacturing process flow.
2.4Adequate control measures should be in place to prevent insects and rodents from entering the processing area
from drains.
2.5Windows, doors & all other openings to outside environment shall be well screened with wire-mesh or insect-
proof screen as applicable to protect the premise from fly and other insects / pests / animals & the doors be fitted with
automatic closing springs. The mesh or the screen should be of such type which can be easily removed for cleaning.
2.6No person shall manufacture, store or expose for sale or permit the sale of any article of food in any premises not
effectively separated to the satisfaction of the licensing authority from any privy, urinal, sullage, drain or place of storage
of foul and waste matter.
3 EQUIPMENT & CONTAINERS
3.1Equipment and containers that come in contact with food and used for food handling, storage, preparation,
processing, packaging and serving shall be made of corrosion free materials  which do not impart any toxicity to the food
material and should be easy to clean and /or disinfect (other than disposable single use  types).
3.2Equipment and utensils used in the preparation of food shall be kept at all times in good order and repair and in
a clean and sanitary condition. Such utensil or container shall not be used for any other purpose.
3.3  Every utensil or container containing any food or ingredient of food intended    for sale shall at all times be either
provided with a properly fitted cover/lid or with a clean gauze net or other material of texture sufficiently fine to protect the
food completely from dust, dirt and flies and other insects.