--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C38
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 24
Word Range: 9857 - 10106
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 24]
88 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
A. SANITARY AND HYGIENIC REQUIREMENTS FOR STREET FOOD VENDORS AND UNITS OTHER THAN
MANUFACTURING/PROCESSING
1. Potential sources of contamination like  rubbish, waste water, toilet facilities, open drains and stray animals
shall be avoided.
2. The surfaces of the Vending carts which come in contact with food or food storage utensils shall be built of
solid, rust/ corrosion resistant materials and kept in clean and good condition They shall be protected from
sun, wind and dust. When not in use, food vending vans shall be kept in clean place and properly protected.
3. Rubbish bin with cover shall be provided by food stall or vending cart owners for any waste generated in the
process of serving and eating by consumers.
4. Working surfaces of vending carts shall be clean, hygienic, impermeable and easy to clean (like stainless
steel), and placed at least 60 to 70 cm. from above ground.
5. Sale points, tables, awnings, benches and boxes, cupboards, glass cases, etc. shall be clean and tidy.
6. Cooking utensils and crockery shall be clean and in good condition. It should not be broken/ chipped.
7. All containers shall be kept clean, washed and dried at the close of business to ensure that there is no growth
of mould/ fungi and infestation.
8. Water used for cleaning, washing and preparing food shall be   potable in nature.
9. Transporting of drinking water (treated water like bottled water, boiled/ filtered water through water purifier
etc.) shall be in properly covered and protected containers and it shall be stored in clean and covered
containers in a protected area away from dust and filth.
10. Cooking, storage and serving shall not be done in utensils of, cadmium, lead, non food grade plastic and other
toxic materials.
11. Utensils shall be cleaned of debris, rinsed, scrubbed with detergent and washed under running tap water after
every operation. Wiping of utensils shall be done with clean cloth. Separate cloths shall be used for wiping
hands and for clearing surfaces, cloth used for floor cleaning will not be used for cleaning surfaces of tables
and working areas and for wiping utensils Person cooking, handling or serving food should use hand gloves
and aprons, where necessary. He shall wear head gear and cover his mouth always while at work.
12. Removing dust or crumb from plates or utensils shall be done by using cloth or wiper into dustbin.
13. The person suffering from infectious disease shall not be permitted to work.
14. All food handlers shall remain clean, wear washed clothes and keep their finger nails trimmed, clean and wash
their hands with soap/ detergent and water before commencing work and every time after touching food or
using toilet.
15. All food handlers should avoid wearing loose items that might fall into food and also avoid touching or
scratching their face, head or hair.
16. All articles that are stored or intended for sale shall have proper cover to avoid contamination.  Food should
be stored only in food grade plastic containers as steel containers to prevent leaking.
17. Eating, chewing, smoking, , spitting and nose blowing shall be prohibited within the premises.
18. Foods shall be prepared or cooked as per the day's requirement to avoid left over which might be used in the
next day without ascertaining its safety for consumption or use in food. Consumables left over shall be kept
in the refrigerator immediately after  their  intended use.
19. Adequate number of racks shall be provided for storage of articles of food, with clear identity of each
commodity. Proper compartment for each class shall also be provided wherever possible so that there is no
cross contamination.
20. Rubbish or garbage bin shall be with a tight cover and shall be cleaned everyday by transferring contents into
designated locations.
21. Vegetarian and non-vegetarian items should be segregated.
22. Fridge should be cleaned at least once a week to remove stains, ice particles and food particles.  The temperature
in the fridge should be in the range of 4°C - 6°C.
23. The location of the vending unit should be in a place approved by the local authorities and not blocking traffic
or pedestrians or near unhygienic locations.