--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C54
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 30
Word Range: 14142 - 14391
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 30]
94 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
carried out without posing a threat to the safety or suitability of food. Records of pesticides / insecticides used
along with dates and frequency shall be maintained.
10 PERSONAL HYGIENE
10.1 Health Status
10.1.1 Personnel known, or believed, to be suffering from, or to be a carrier of a disease or illness likely to be
transmitted through food, shall not be allowed to enter into any food handling area . The Food Business shall
develop system, whereby any person so affected, shall immediately report illness or symptoms of illness to the
management and medical examination of a food handler shall be carried out apart from the periodic checkups, if
clinically or epidemiologically indicated.
10.1.2 Arrangements shall be made to get the food handlers / employees of the establishment medically
examined once in a year to ensure that they are free from any infectious, contagious and other communicable
diseases. A record of these examinations signed by a registered medical practitioner shall be maintained for inspection
purpose.
10.1.3 The factory staff shall be compulsorily inoculated against the enteric group of diseases as per
recommended schedule of the vaccine and a record shall be kept for inspection.
10.1.4 In case of an epidemic, all workers are to be vaccinated irrespective of the scheduled vaccination.
10.2 Personal Cleanliness
10.2.1 Food handlers shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. The food business shall provide to
all food handlers adequate and suitable clean protective clothing, head covering, face musk, gloves and footwear
and the food business shall ensure that the food handlers at work wear only clean protective clothes, head covering
and footwear every day.
10.2.2 Food handlers shall always wash their hands with soap and clean potable water, disinfect their hands
and then dry with hand drier or clean cloth towel or disposable paper at the beginning of food handling activities
immediately after handling raw food or any contaminated material, tools, equipment or work surface, where this
could result in contamination of other food items or after using the toilet.
10.2.3 Food handlers engaged in food handling activities shall refrain from smoking, spitting, chewing, sneezing
or coughing over any food whether protected or unprotected and eating in food preparation and food service areas.
10.2.4 The food handlers should trim their nails and hair periodically, do not encourage or practice unhygienic
habits while handling food.
10.2.5 Persons working directly with and handling raw materials or food products shall maintain high standards
of personal cleanliness at all times. In particular:
a) they shall not smoke, spit, eat or drink in areas or rooms where raw materials and food products are
handled or stored;
b) wash their hands at least each time work is resumed and whenever contamination of their hands has
occurred; e.g. after coughing / sneezing, visiting toilet, using telephone, smoking etc.
c) avoid certain hand habits - e.g. scratching nose, running finger through hair, rubbing eyes, ears and
mouth, scratching beard, scratching parts of bodies etc.- that are potentially hazardous when associated with
handling food products, and might lead to food contamination through the transfer of bacteria from the
employee to product during its preparation. When unavoidable, hands should be effectively washed before
resuming work after such actions.
10.3 Visitors
10.3.1 Generally visitors should be discouraged from going inside the food handling areas. Proper care has to
be taken to ensure that food safety & hygiene is not getting compromised due to visitors in the floor area.
10.3.2 The Food Business shall ensure that visitors to its food manufacturing, cooking, preparation, storage
or handling areas must wherever appropriate, wear protective clothing, footwear and adhere to the other personal
hygiene provisions envisaged in this section.