--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C57
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 31
Word Range: 14892 - 15276
Word Count: 385
--------------------

[Page 31]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 95
11 PRODUCT INFORMA TION AND CONSUMER AWARNESS
 All packaged food products shall carry a label and requisite information as per provisions of Food Safety and Standards
Act, 2006 and Regulations made there under so as to ensure that adequate and accessible information is available to the
each person in the food chain to enable them to handle, store, process, prepare and display the food products safely and
correctly and that the lot or batch can be easily traced and recalled if necessary.
12 TRAINING
12.1 The Food Business shall ensure that all food handlers are aware of their role and responsibility in protecting
food from contamination or deterioration. Food handlers shall have the necessary knowledge and skills which are relevant
to food processing / manufacturing, packing, storing and serving so as to ensure the food safety and food quality.
12.2 The Food Business shall ensure that all the food handlers are instructed and trained in food hygiene and food
safety aspects along with personal hygiene requirements commensurate with their work activities, the nature of food, its
handling, processing, preparation, packaging, storage, service and distribution.
12.3 Periodic assessments of the effectiveness of training, awareness of safety requirements and competency level
shall be made, as well as routine supervision and checks to ensure that food hygiene and food safety procedures are being
carried out effectively.
12.4 Training programmes shall be routinely reviewed and updated wherever necessary.
 PART-III
(See Regulation 2.1.2.(1)(5))
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators engaged in manufacture,
processing, storing and selling of Milk and Milk Products
In addition to Part-II, the dairy establishment in which dairy based food is being handled, processed, manufactured,
stored, distributed and ultimately sold by the food business operator, and the persons handling them should conform to
the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures and other standard as specified below.
I. SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
1. Dairy Establishments shall have the following:
(a) Facilities for the hygienic handling and protection of raw materials and of non-packed or non-wrapped
dairy products during loading and unloading, transport & storing including Bulk Milk cooling facilities.
(b) Special watertight, non-corrodible containers to put raw materials or dairy products intended for human
consumption. Where such raw materials or dairy products are removed through conduits, these shall be constructed
and installed in such a way so as to avoid any risk of contamination of other raw materials or dairy products;
(c) a waste water disposal system which is hygienic and approved ;
(d) facilities for cleaning & disinfecting of tanks used for transporting dairy products and raw milk. These
containers have to be cleaned after every use.
2. The occupier of a dairy establishment shall take appropriate measures to avoid cross-contamination of dairy
products in accordance with the cleaning program as specified in point 9.1 of Part II.
3. Where a dairy establishment produces food stuffs containing dairy products together with other ingredients,
which have not undergone heat treatment or any other treatment having equivalent effect, such dairy products and
ingredients shall be stored separately to prevent cross-contamination.
4. The production of heat-treated milk or the manufacture of milk-based products, which might pose a risk of
contamination to other dairy products, shall be carried out in a clearly separated working area.
5. Equipment, containers and installations which come into contact with dairy products or perishable raw materials
used during production shall be cleaned and if necessary disinfected according to a verified and documented cleaning
programme.
6. Equipment, containers, instruments and installations which come in contact with microbiologically stable dairy
products and the rooms in which they are stored shall be cleaned and disinfected according to a verified and documented
Food Safety management programme drawn up by the owner/occupier of the dairy establishment.