--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C63
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 34
Word Range: 16673 - 16922
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 34]
98 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.4 The reception area/animal holding yard/ resting yard shall have facilities for watering and examining
animals before they are sent to holding pens/lairage. Animals suspected of contagious or infectious diseases shall
be segregated and kept in separate isolation pens which shall also be provided with arrangements for watering and
feeding. After confirmation for any notifiable disease, the designated Veterinary Authority shall notify the disease
as per the existing procedures. The resting yard must have overhead protective shelter.(This is not mandatory for
registration category)
3.5 The lairage shall be adequate in size for the number of animals to be laired.
3.6 Separate space shall be provided for stunning (Wherever applicable), for collection of blood and for
dressing of the carcasses. The slaughtering of an animal shall not be done in the sight of other animals. The
dressing of the carcass shall not be done on the floor. Suitable hoists will be provided to hang the carcass before it
is eviscerated.
3.7 All the floors in lairage, slaughter halls, work rooms, hanging rooms shall be of impervious and non-
slippery material.
3.8 The internal walls will be paved with impervious glazed tiles up to 1 meter height in case of poultry and
small ruminant animals and 5 meter height in case of large ruminant animals . The walls and floors should be epoxy
coated so as to avoid accumulation/absorption of dust, blood/meat particles, microbial/fungal growth.
3.9 Ceiling or roofs shall be so constructed and finished so as to minimise condensation, mould development,
flaking and accumulation of dirt.
3.10 Suitable and sufficient accommodation shall be provided for segregation, storage and disposal of
condemned meat.
3.11 The establishments / Slaughter Houses shall be so constructed and maintained as to permit hygienic
production.
3.12 Windows, doors and other openings suited to screening shall be fly proof. All doors shall have strong
springs so that they may close automatically.
3.13 All operations in connection with the preparation or packing of meat / meat food products shall be carried
out under hygienic conditions. No portion of the establishments / Slaughter Houses premises shall ever be used for
living or sleeping purposes unless it is separated from the factory by a wall.
3.14 There shall be efficient drainage and plumbing systems and all drains and gutters shall be properly and
permanently installed. There shall be provision for the disposal of refuse.
3.15 The drainage system for blood shall either be underground with facility for easy cleaning or a portable
receptacle with lid. All drainages will have traps and screens so as to prevent entry of scavengers like rats, mice,
vermin etc.
3.16 The rooms and compartments where edible products are handled shall be separate and distinct from the
rooms and compartments for inedible products.
3.17 Suitable and separate space shall be provided for the storage of hides and skins. This room shall have a
separate exit.
3.18 A constant and sufficient supply of clean potable cold water with pressure hose pipes and supply of hot
water should be made available in the slaughter hall during working hours.
3.19 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided for persons working in the slaughter house for changing
their clothes and cleaning their footwear, and cleaning their hands before entering rooms used for the preparation
and storage of meat.
3.20 Provision for latrines, toilets and change rooms will be made . Sufficient number of latrines, urinals,
washbasins and bathrooms for each sex shall be provided.
3.21 Suitable and sufficient facilities shall be provided in convenient places within the slaughter house for the
sterilisation of knives and sharpner (mushtala) and other equipment used in the slaughter house. The knives and
sharpner (mushtala) shall be of stainless steel only.
3.22 Whenever cooking is done on open fire, chimneys shall be provided for removal of smoke and soot.
3.23 Whenever the dressed meat is not used up for the preparation of meat food products and some portion
has to be stored without further immediate processing, such storage shall be in a room maintained at 0° C to 2°C.