--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C45
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 27
Word Range: 11752 - 12001
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 27]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 91
4.5 Drainage and waste disposal
4.5.1 Food waste and other waste materials shall be removed periodically from the place where food is being
handled or cooked or manufactured to avoid building up. A refuse bin of adequate size with a proper cover
preferably one which need not be touched for opening shall be provided in the premises for collection of waste
material. This shall be emptied and washed daily with a disinfectant and dried before next use.
4.5.2 The disposal of sewage and effluents (solid, liquid and gas) shall be in conformity with requirements of
Factory / Environment Pollution Control Board. Adequate drainage, waste disposal systems and facilities shall be
provided and they shall be designed and constructed in such manner so that the risk of contaminating food or the
potable water supply is eliminated.
4.5.3 Waste storage shall be located in such manner that it does not contaminate the food process, storage
areas, the environment inside and outside the food establishment and waste shall be kept in covered containers and
shall be removed at regular intervals.
4.5.4 Periodic disposal of the refuse / waste should be made compulsory. No waste shall be kept open inside
the premise and shall be disposed of in an appropriate manner as per local rules and regulations including those for
plastics and other non environment friendly materials.
4.6 Personnel facilities and toilets
4.6.1 Personnel facilities shall include those for proper washing and drying of hands before touching food
materials including wash basins and a supply of hot and /or cold water as appropriate; separate lavatories, of
appropriate hygienic design, for males and females separately; and changing facilities for personnel and such
facilities shall be suitably located so that they do not open directly into food processing, handling or storage areas.
4.6.2 Number of toilets should be adequate depending on the number of employees (male /female) in the
establishment and they should be made aware of the cleanliness requirement while handling food.
4.6.3 Rest and refreshments rooms shall be separate from food process and service areas and these areas shall
not lead directly to food production, service and storage areas.
4.6.4 A display board mentioning do's & don'ts for the workers shall be put up inside at a prominent place in
the premise in English or in local language for everyone's understanding.
4.7 Air quality and ventilation
Ventilation systems natural and /or mechanical including air filters, exhaust fans, wherever required, shall be
designed and constructed so that air does not flow from contaminated areas to clean areas.
4.8 Lighting
Natural or artificial lighting shall be provided to the food establishment, to enable the employees/workers to
operate in a hygienic manner. Lighting fixtures must wherever appropriate, be protected to ensure that food is not
contaminated by breakages of electrical fittings.
5 FOOD OPERATIONS AND CONTROLS
5.1 Procurement of raw materials
5.1.1 No raw material or ingredient thereof shall be accepted by an establishment if it is known to contain
parasites, undesirable micro-organisms, pesticides, veterinary drugs or toxic items, decomposed or extraneous
substances, which would not be reduced to an acceptable level by normal sorting and/or processing.
5.1.2 All raw materials, food additives and ingredients, wherever applicable, shall conform to all the Regulations
and standards laid down under the Act.
5.1.3 Records of raw materials, food additives and ingredients as well as their source of procurement shall be
maintained in a register for inspection.
5.1.4 All raw materials should be checked & cleaned physically thoroughly.
5.1.5 Raw materials should be purchased in quantities that correspond to storage/ preservation capacity.
5.1.6 Packaged raw material must be checked for 'expiry date'/ 'best before'/ 'use by' date, packaging integrity
and storage conditions.