--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C04
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 2
Word Range: 767 - 1016
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
66 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(b) such other food businesses including small scale or cottage or such other industries relating to food
business or tiny food businesses with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs 12 lakhs and/or  whose
(i) production capacity of food (other than milk and milk products and meat and meat products)
does not exceed 100 kg/ltr per day or
(ii) procurement or handling and collection of milk is up to 500 litres of milk per day or
(iii) slaughtering capacity is 2 large animals or 10 small animals or 50 poultry birds per day or less.
5. Registering Authority” means Designated Officer/ Food Safety Officer or any official in Panchayat, Municipal
Corporation or any other local body or Panchayat in an area, notified as such by the State Food Safety Commissioner
for the purpose of registration as specified in these Regulations.
6. “State Licensing Authority” means Designated Officers appointed under Section 36(1) of the Act by the
Food Safety Commissioner of a State or UT.
The expressions used in these Regulations but have not been defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Act or as provided in the regulations, chapters and Appendices.
Chapter-2
L
ICENSING AND REGISTRA TION OF FOOD BUSINESS
2. 1 Registration and Licensing of Food Business
All Food Business Operators in the country will be registered or licensed in accordance with the procedures laid
down hereinafter;
2.1.1 Registration of Petty Food Business
(1) Every petty Food Business Operator shall register themselves with the Registering Authority by submitting
an application for registration in Form A under Schedule 2 of these Regulations along with a fee as provided in
Schedule 3.
(2) The petty food manufacturer shall follow the basic hygiene and safety requirements provided in Part I of
Schedule 4 of these Regulations and provide a self attested declaration of adherence to these requirements with the
application in the format provided in Annexure-1 under Schedule 2.
(3) The Registering Authority shall consider the application and may either grant registration or reject it with
reasons to be recorded in writing or issue notice for inspection, within 7 days of receipt of an application for
registration.
(4) In the event of an inspection being ordered, the registration shall be granted by the Registering Authority
after being satisfied with the safety, hygiene and sanitary conditions of the premises as contained in Part II of
Schedule 4 within a period of 30 days.
If registration is not granted, or denied, or inspection not ordered within 7 days as provided in above sub
regulation (3) or no decision is communicated within 30 days as provided in above sub regulation (4), the petty food
manufacturer may start its business, provided that it will be incumbent on the Food Business Operator to comply
with any improvement suggested by the Registering Authority even later.
Provided that registration shall not be refused without giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard and
for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(5) The Registering Authority shall issue a registration certificate and a photo identity card, which shall be
displayed at a prominent place at all times within the premises or vehicle or cart or any other place where the person
carries on sale/manufacture of food in case of Petty Food Business.
(6) The Registering Authority or any officer or agency specifically authorized for this purpose shall carry out
food safety inspection of the registered establishments at least once in a year.
Provided that a producer of milk who is a registered member of a dairy Cooperative Society registered under
Cooperative Societies Act and supplies or sells the entire milk to the Society shall be exempted from this provision
for registration.