--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C11
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 4
Word Range: 2561 - 2905
Word Count: 345
--------------------

[Page 4]
68 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(3) On the receipt of a complete application including the additional information if asked for, the Licensing
Authority shall issue an Application ID number to each applicant that will be referred to in all future correspondence
between the Licensing Authority and the applicant.
(4) After the issue of Application ID number the Licensing Authority may direct the Food Safety Officer or any
other person or agency specially designated for such functions to inspect the premises in the manner prescribed by
the Food Safety and Standard  Authority of India in accordance  with these Regulations.  Such Inspecting Officer or
person may issue a notice to the applicant, if it deems fit, guiding food business operator on necessary steps to be
taken or changes or alteration to be made in the premises in order to ensure general sanitary and hygienic conditions
as specified in Schedule 4. The applicant shall carry out the required steps, changes or alterations and intimate the
Licensing Authority within 30 days or such period as may be allowed by the Licensing Authority.
(5) Within a period of 30 days from receipt of an inspection report excluding the time taken by the applicant in
complying with the advice, if any, given in the inspection report and verification thereof, the concerned Licensing
Authority shall consider the application and may either grant license or reject the application.
Provided that before refusing license an applicant shall be given an opportunity of being heard and the
reasons for refusal shall be recorded in writing.
(6) The Licensing Authority shall issue a License in Format C under Schedule 2 of these Regulations, a true
copy of which shall be displayed at a prominent place at all times within the premises where the Food Business
Operator carries on the food business.
2.1.5 Procedure for License in certain local areas
(1) A single license may be issued by the Licensing Authority for one or more articles of food and also for
different establishments or premises in the same local area including collection and chilling units run by milk
cooperatives or its members.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India in the capacity of Food
Safety Commissioner may  appoint a Designated Officer or Food Safety Officer for Central Government organizations
like Railways, Defense etc., which have a large number of food establishments, to ensure food safety in those
establishments and to ensure that all other conditions laid down for running food business under the Act and these
Regulations are complied with. Provided further that the Food Authority may carry out food safety audit of these
establishments once in a year through its own or accredited agencies.
2.1.6 Commencement of Business
An applicant may commence his food business and the concerned licensing Authority shall not deny the
applicant to commence such business if, from the date of making the completed application, a license is not issued
within 60 days or the applicant has not received any intimation of inadequacy under Regulation 2.1.4(2) or inspection
report indicating defects from the concerned Licensing Authority under Regulation 2.1.4(4)
2.1.7 V alidity and Renewal of Registration and License
(1) A Registration or license granted under these Regulations shall be valid and subsisting, unless otherwise
specified,  for a period of 1 to 5 years as chosen by the Food Business Operator, from  the date of issue of registration
or license subject to remittance of fee applicable for the period and compliance with all conditions of license.
(2) Any application for the renewal of a registration or license granted under these Regulations shall be made
in Form A or B of Schedule 2, as the case may be, not later than 30 days prior to the expiry date indicated in the
license.
(3) The Registration or License shall continue to be in force till such time that the orders are passed on the
renewal application which in no case shall be beyond 30 days from the date of expiry of registration or license.
(4) Any renewal application filed beyond the period mentioned under Regulation 2.1.7 (2) above but before the
expiry date, shall be accompanied by a late fee of Rs 100 per day for each day of delay.
(5) Any Registration or license for which renewal has not been applied for within the period mentioned in
Regulation 2.1.7 (2) or 2.1.7 (4) above shall expire and the Food Business Operator shall stop all business activity at
the premises. The Food Business Operator will have to apply for fresh Registration or license as provided in
Regulation 2.1.1 and 2.1.3 as the case may be, if it wants to restart the business.