--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C72
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 36 to Page 37
Word Range: 18923 - 19172
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 36]
100 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
any meat food product is prepared or handled shall be free from dust and from odours emanating from dressing
rooms, toilet rooms, catch basins, hide cellars, casing rooms and livestock pens.
4.09 Every practicable precaution shall be taken to exclude flies, rats, mice and vermin from the establishments
/ Slaughter Houses. The use of poisons for any purpose in rooms or compartments where any unpacked product is
stored or handled is forbidden. The use of approved bait poisons in hide cellars, compartments where inedible
products are stored, outhouses or similar buildings containing canned products is, however, not forbidden.
4.10 It shall be ensured that dogs, cats or birds do not have access to the slaughter hall. Open areas in the
factory shall have covered wire rope netting to prevent carrion birds from access to the slaughter hall or the factory.
4.11 Water used in the establishments / Slaughter Houses shall be potable and suitable arrangements shall be
made for ensuring potability of water if bore well water is used for production of meat and meat products. If required
by the licensing authority, the water shall be got examined chemically and bacteriologic ally by a recognised
laboratory. The water quality shall comply the standards prescribed by the licensing Authority.
4.12 Warm meat' meant for immediate sale need not be stored in cool conditions. It can be transported in a
hygienic and sanitary condition in clean insulated containers with covers (lids) to the meat shops/selling units with
precautions to ensure that no contamination/cross contamination or deterioration takes place.
5. Equipment & Machinery:
5.1 The equipment and fittings in slaughter hall except for chopping blocks, cutting boards and brooms, shall
be of such material and of such construction as to enable them to be kept clean. The implements shall be of metal or
other cleanable and durable material resistant to corrosion.
5.2 No vessel, container or other equipment, the use of which is likely to cause metallic contamination
injurious to health shall be employed in the preparation, packing or storage of meat food products. (Copper or brass
vessels shall always be heavily lined. No iron or galvanised iron shall come in contact with meat food products).
6. Personnel Hygiene:
6.1 No person suffering from infectious or contagious diseases shall be allowed to work in the factory.
Arrangements shall be made to get the factory staff medically examined at such intervals as the licensing authority
deems fit, to ensure that they are free from infectious, contagious and other diseases. A record of these examinations
signed by a registered medical practitioner shall be maintained for inspection.
6.2 The staff shall be inoculated against the enteric group of diseases and a certificate thereof shall be kept for
inspection.
6.3 In case of an epidemic, all workers should be inoculated or vaccinated.
6.4 The workers working in processing and preparation shall be provided with proper aprons and head wears
which shall be clean. The management shall ensure that all workers are neat, clean and tidy.
(a) Animal Welfare
Animal welfare is a major concern in meat production. It is essential that animals be reared, handled,
transported, and slaughtered using humane practices. A healthy and peaceful animal is an essential requirement
for hygienic slaughter and safety of the meat product.
Careful handling of animals during loading / unloading, transportation and at slaughtering helps in improving
the quality of meat and reduction in losses in the value of the carcass/meat.
1. Pre Slaughter Handling of Animal:
Livestock are transported en masse from the farm to the slaughterhouse, a process called "live export". Depending
on its length and circumstances, this exerts stress and injuries on the animals and some may die en route. Apart from being
inhumane, unnecessary stress in transport may adversely affect the quality of the meat. In particular, the muscles of
stressed animals are low in water and glycogen, and their pH fails to attain acidic values.
Transportation of Animals
Following requirements shall be satisfied for Transportation of Animals from a farm to the slaughter house.
1.0 General Conditions

[Page 37]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 101
1.1 Only healthy animals in good condition shall be transported unless they are meant for emergency slaughter.
These animals should be certified by a qualified veterinary inspector for freedom from infectious diseases and ecto-
parasitic diseases and their fitness to undertake the journey.
1.2 When animals are to be transported from endemic areas of a disease to non-endemic areas, the animals
should be given protective vaccination and kept in quarantine for 30 days, before transportation.
1.3 Female animals in advanced stages of pregnancy shall not be transported.
1.4 When transporting large animals particularly bears/bulls, special arrangements by providing suitable
partitions should be made to protect the animals from infighting. Similar arrangements should also be made to
protect the young ones from being crushed when they are transported.
1.5 To avoid exhaustion, the animals shall be given humane treatment and care during transportation. The
animals shall not be bound or chained during transit and space provided for them shall be large enough to stand or
lie.
1.6 An attendant along with first aid equipment shall accompany the animals in transit.
1.7 Before loading, the animals should not be fed heavily. Only light feed may be allowed. For journeys less
than 12 hours no feed need be carried but for longer journeys sufficient feed shall be carried to last during the
journey. Watering facilities shall be provided at regular intervals.
1.8 Light and heavy animals shall be separated by providing partitions; animals from different pens/sheds
shall not be mixed during transportation. Male stock shall not be transported with female stock (adults).
1.9 All vehicles should be inspected for safety, suitability and cleanliness before loading the animals. The
floor and walls should be undamaged and there should be no nails or sharp projections which may injure the
animals.
1.10 The Vehicles should be thoroughly sprayed with suitable disinfectant before loading the animals.
1.11 A layer of clean sand to cover the floor to a thickness of not less than 6 cm shall be provided. This layer
of sand shall be moistened with water during the summer months. During hot months arrangements shall be made
to sprinkle water on the animals at frequent intervals. In winter, a 2-cm layer of clean sand with another 6-cm layer of
whole-straw shall be provided.
1.12 Animals when driven for loading or unloading shall never be struck with stick. Driving could best be done
by soft-rubber pipe.
1.13 If animals are to be transported in extreme cold or hot climate, it is preferable to transport them in covered
Lorries on road so that they may not die or get exhausted or suffer from acute respiratory disease. Journey under
such adverse climate shall be minimised.
1.14 Each consignment should bear a label showing the following particulars:
a) Number and kind of the animals loaded;
b) Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the consignor;
c) Name address and telephone number, if any, of the consignee;
d) Instructions regarding feeding and watering.
2.0 Loading
2.1 Loading during extremes of temperatures shall be avoided.
2.2 Suitable ramp shall be provided for loading and unloading the animals. The floor of the ramp shall have cleats at
intervals, so that animals do not slip as they climb or descend. The ramp shall be covered with straw to avoid slipping. At
any time of loading and unloading the vehicle shall be kept clean to avoid slipping of animals. Bale
2.3 In case of railway wagons when loading is done on the platform, the door of the wagon may be used as ramp. In
such cases, bales or bags of hay, agricultural wastes etc. may be placed on the either side of the dropped door to prevent
the animals from getting their legs between the sides of the wagons and platform.
3.0 Space Requirements
3.1 Overcrowding shall be avoided. Each animal shall have enough space to lie down.