--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C105
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 48 to Page 49
Word Range: 27762 - 28011
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 48]
112 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7.02 The pest control measures adopted by the owner of shop should be kept as a record in the premises to be
shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities responsible for local administration/Corporation at the
time of inspection.
7.03 Chlorinated hydrocarbons, organo-phosphorus compounds and synthetic perithroids, rodenticides etc should
neither be used as pesticide nor shall be stored at the meat shop.
7.04 No live animals or birds should be allowed inside or adjacent to the meat shops.
8. Personnel Hygiene
8.01. Every person employed for meat handling at the meat shop shall be medically examined annually by a authorized
registered medical practitioner and examination shall include examination of sputum and x-ray of the chest for tuberculosis.
The medical examination shall also include examination of stool for protozoal and helminthic infestations for those
parasites, which are transmitted by ingestion, and also for the presence of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, Salmonella,
Shigella spieces and Vibrio cholera.
8.02. A certificate / records of medical fitness of all workers handling meat should be kept as a record in the premises
to be shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities responsible for local administration / Corporation
at the time of inspection.
8.03. No worker suspected to be suffering from fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, typhoid, dysentery or boils, cuts and
sores and ulcers (however small) shall be permitted to work in the meat shops.
8.04 All the workers of the meat shop shall keep their finger nails short and clean and wash their hands with soap or
detergent and hot water before commencement of work and after each absence, especially after using sanitary conveniences.
8.05. Eating, spitting, nose cleaning or the use of tobacco in any form or chewing betel leaves shall be prohibited
within the premises of meat shop processing, packing and storage area of the unit. "No smoking "and "No Spitting
"boards shall be prominently displayed in the shop.
9. Sanitary Practices
9.01 The chopping block should be sanitized daily by covering its top with sea-salt, after cleaning it with hot
water at close of business activity.
9.02 The floor should be washed with appropriate disinfectant / detergent / sanitizer at the start and close of
the business each working day.
9.03 There should be high standard of cleanliness and tidiness in the working area of shop with no organic or
other material lying on the floor.
9.04 The refrigerated / freezing cabinet should be regularly cleaned and well maintained.
9.05 Slaughtering of animal / birds inside the shop premises should be strictly prohibited.
9.06 The carcasses shall not be allowed to be covered with wet-clothes.
9.07 Wholesome meat obtained from the authorized slaughter house shall only be sold at the meat shops and
a record thereof shall be kept in the premises to be shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities
responsible for local administration Corporation at the time of inspection.
9.08 Waste bins should be emptied, transported for disposal as per the arrangements made by the concerned
Panchayats / Municipalities and waste bin / dhalau ( burial pits) shall be treated daily with a disinfectant.
9.09 The premises shall not be used for residential purposes nor it shall communicate with any residential
quarter. No personal belonging like clothing, bedding, shoes etc. shall be kept in the premises. Only dressed
carcasses of clean meat shall be stored at the premises.
9.10 Hides, skins, hoofs, heads and unclean gut will not be allowed to be stored in the premises at any time.
9.11 The chopping instruments should be cleaned with hot water at a temperature of 82 degree C.
9.12 The preparation of food of any type inside the meat sale outlet should be strictly prohibited.
9.13 The meat obtained from unauthorized sources or unstamped meat is liable to be confiscated and destroyed.
9.14 Waste of the meat shop to be disposed of packed in heavy polythene bags in dhalaos (burial pits).

[Page 49]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 113
10. Other Requirements
10.01 The prepared meat shall be packed in waxed paper and then placed in polyethylene bags or packed directly in
bags made of food grade plastics.
10.02 Failure to comply with any of these instructions may entail legal action against the defaulters, and even result
in cancellation of license by the appropriate authority of the concerned Panchayats/Municipalities/Corporation.
10.03 No Objection Certificate from law and order point of view to be obtained from police department or the
concerned Panchayats/Municipalities/Corporation before grant of license for buffalo meat and pork shop.
10.04 The concerned Panchayats/Municipalities responsible for local administration in the country shall appoint
qualified Veterinary staff for the meat inspection (Ante mortem and Post mortem inspection) or if regular staff cannot be
made available or deployed for the purpose shall make contractual arrangements for availing the services of qualified
V eterinary staff for meat inspection available with the Animal Husbandry Depts. of the concerned state/UT in the country.
10.05 Retail meat shop license shall be granted subject to fulfillment of all the above technical and administrative
instructions in relation to the trade.
Part - V
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators
engaged in catering / food service establishments
In addition to Part-II the Catering/ food Service establishment in which food is being handled, processed,
manufactured, stored, distributed and ultimately sold to the customers and the persons handling them should conform to
the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures and other standard as specified below.
It includes premises where public is admitted for repose or for consumption of any food or drink or any place where
cooked food is sold or prepared for sale. It includes:
(a) Eating Houses
(b) Restaurants & Hotels
(c) Snack Bars,
(d) Canteens (Schools, Colleges, Office, Institutions)
(e) Food Service at religious places
(f) Neighbourhood Tiffin Services / dabba walas
(g) Rail and airline catering
(h) Hospital catering
I. GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICES FOR WHOLE PREMISE
I. Food Preparation Areas
The following rules apply to rooms where food is prepared. There will be no smoke nuisance in the food
preparation area. Wherever cooking or frying of any kind is being done, a chimney having appropriate suction
capacity as per the size of the kitchen has to be installed prior to start of business.
II . Hand washing facilities and toilets
(1) Adequate number of wash-hand basins made of porcelain/stainless steel shall be provided along with
soap to wash hands, with hot and cold running water, and materials for cleaning hands and drying them hygienically.
Clean and dry towels shall be kept for the use of customers.
(2) Separate sinks must be provided, where necessary, for washing raw food and cleaning equipment.
(3) Sinks with a draining board, detergent and hot water shall be provided to ensure proper cleaning of
utensils, crockery and cutlery there will be a separate place for washing pots and pains.
2. Changing facilities:
Facilities for staff to change their clothes, where necessary must be provided.