--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C50
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 29
Word Range: 13142 - 13391
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 29]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 93
conveyances and / or containers used for transporting / serving foodstuffs shall be non toxic, kept clean and maintained
in good condition in order to protect foodstuffs from any contamination.
5.5.3 Receptacles in vehicles and / or containers shall not be used for transporting anything other than foodstuffs
where this may result in contamination of foodstuffs. Where the same conveyance or container is used for transportation
of different foods, or high risk foods such as fish, meat, poultry, eggs etc., effective cleaning and disinfections shall be
carried out between loads to avoid the risk of cross- contamination. For bulk transport of food, containers and conveyances
shall be designated and marked for food use only and be used only for that purpose.
6 Management and Supervision
6.1 A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the processing of food as well as its packing, despatch and
storage will be developed for proper management which in turn would help in identifying any problem and the exact point,
so that damage control would be faster.
6.2 The Food Business shall ensure that technical managers and supervisors have appropriate qualifications,
knowledge and skills on food hygiene principles and practices to be able to ensure food safety and quality of its products,
judge food hazards, take appropriate preventive and corrective action, and to ensure effective monitoring and supervision.
7 Food Testing Facilities
7.1 A well equipped, laboratory for testing of food materials / food for physical, microbiological and chemical
analysis in accordance with the specification/standards laid down under the rules and regulations shall be in place inside
the premise for regular / periodic testing and when ever required.
7.2 In case of any suspicion or possible contamination, food materials / food shall be tested before dispatch from the
factory.
7.3 If there is no in house laboratory facility, then regular testing shall be done through an accredited lab notified by
FSSAI . In case of complaints received and if so required, the company shall voluntarily do the testing either in the in-
house laboratory or an accredited lab or lab notified by FSSAI.
8 Audit, Documentation and Records
8.1 A periodic audit of the whole system according to the SOP shall be done to find out any fault / gap in the GMP
/ GHP system.
8.2 Appropriate records of food processing / preparation, production / cooking, storage, distribution, service, food
quality, laboratory test results, cleaning and sanitation, pest control and product recall shall be kept and retained for a
period of one year or the shelf-life of the product, whichever is more.
9 SANITA TION AND MAINTENANCE OF ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES
9.1 Cleaning and Maintenance
9.1.1 A cleaning and sanitation programme shall be drawn up and observed and the record thereof shall be
properly maintained, which shall indicate specific areas to be cleaned, cleaning frequency and cleaning procedure
to be followed, including equipment and materials to be used for cleaning. Equipments used in manufacturing will be
cleaned and sterilized at set frequencies.
9.1.2 Cleaning chemicals shall be handled and used carefully in accordance with the instructions of the
manufacturer and shall be stored separately away from food materials, in clearly identified containers, to avoid any
risk of contaminating food.
9.2 Pest Control Systems
9.2.1 Food establishment, including equipment and building shall be kept in good repair to prevent pest
access and to eliminate potential breeding sites. Holes, drains and other places where pests are likely to gain access
shall be kept in sealed condition or fitted with mesh / grills / claddings or any other suitable means as required and
animals, birds and pets shall not be allowed to enter into the food establishment areas/ premises.
9.2.2 Food materials shall be stored in pest-proof containers stacked above the ground and away from walls.
9.2.3 Pest infestations shall be dealt with immediately and without adversely affecting the food safety or
suitability. Treatment with permissible chemical, physical or biological agents, within the appropriate limits, shall be