--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C80
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 40
Word Range: 21090 - 21339
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 40]
104 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(c) Holding: Poultry held in storage sheds should be provided adequate ventilation and climate control
such as fans or curtains.
(d) Stunning: Stunning equipment should be properly maintained to confirm that poultry are insensible
prior to slaughter, and the time between stunning and slaughter should be limited to minimize any likelihood
that poultry may regain consciousness prior to slaughter.
Economic performance and welfare:
High standards of poultry welfare and high levels of flock performance and economic performance are not
incompatible - quite the contrary, they go hand in hand. It simply makes good economic sense as well as being in the
poultry's best interests to ensure that flocks are maintained in an environment, in which they are thermally comfortable,
protected from injury, fed optimally and kept healthy. Therefore, all measures described elsewhere to ensure that
chickens are kept in conditions which optimize their comfort (in terms of temperature, humidity, air flow and air
quality), in which they are provided with water, shelter, and a high quality diet that matches their physiological
needs, and which optimize their health have just as important effect in terms of poultry welfare as they do on the
overall efficiency of the farming operation.
Poultry health and welfare:
When producing chicken meat in a welfare-friendly manner it is also important that the poultry receive prompt
and appropriate medication and treatment to prevent and treat diseases if this should become necessary, and that
they do not suffer any unnecessary pain, distress, fear or physical injury. It is also important that sick or injured
poultry that cannot be adequately or successfully treated are culled quickly and in a humane manner so that they do
not suffer.
 Humane slaughter (poultry):
While the chickens are reared specifically for human consumption and they therefore at some stage have to
be slaughtered, they should be slaughtered in a humane manner, and all poultry should be stunned (rendered
insensible to pain) prior to slaughter.
Slaughter equipment at all supply facilities should be properly maintained to confirm that the poultry are
slaughtered quickly.
7. Ante-mortem inspection
(1) All animals shall be rested before slaughter and shall be subjected to ante-mortem examination and inspection
well in advance of the time of slaughter.
(2) No animal which has been received into a slaughter hall for the purpose of being slaughtered shall be removed
from the slaughter hall before being slaughtered except with the written consent of the Qualified V eterinary Doctor. An
animal which, on inspection is found to be not fit for slaughter shall be marked as "suspect" and kept separately. Each
such animal shall be marked as "suspect" only by or under the personal supervision of the Qualified Veterinary Doctor
and the marking shall not be removed or obliterated except by the Qualified Veterinary Doctor himself.
(3) An animal showing signs of any disease at the time of ante-mortem inspection that would cause its carcass being
ultimately condemned on post-mortem shall be marked as "condemned" and rejected.
(4) An animal declared as "suspect" on ante-mortem inspection but which does not plainly show any disease or
condition that would cause its entire carcass to be condemned shall maintain its identity as "suspect" until its carcass and
all organs are finally inspected by the Qualified V eterinary Doctor.
(5) No animal in a febrile condition shall be permitted for slaughter. No suspect animal shall be slaughtered until all
other animals intended for slaughter on the same day have been slaughtered. All animals which, on ante-mortem inspection,
show symptoms of railroad sickness, parturient paresis, rabies, tetanus or any other communicable diseases shall be
marked as "condemned" and disposed of in accordance with the provisions contained in sub paragraph (8) below.
(6) Animals presented for slaughter and found in a dying condition on the premises of a factory due to recent
disease shall be marked as "condemned" and disposed of as provided for "condemned" animals.
(7) Every animal which, upon examination, is found to show symptoms of or is suspected of being diseased or
animals declared as "suspect" shall at once be removed for treatment to such special pen and kept there for observation
for such period as may be considered necessary to ascertain whether the animal is diseased or not.