--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C113
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 52
Word Range: 29844 - 30151
Word Count: 308
--------------------

[Page 52]
116 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
z after breaks
z after using the toilet
z after cleaning the raw materials or utensils / equipments
3. Street shoes inside the food preparation area should not be worn while handling & preparing food.
4. Food handlers should ensure careful food handling & protect food from environmental exposure.
5. Food handlesr should not handle soiled currency notes to avoid cross contamination.
IV . TRANSPORTA TION AND HANDLING OF FOOD
(1) The vehicle/transportation being used to carry cooked/prepared/processed food should be clean and, dedicated
for this purpose and should not carry anything else.
(2) Time required for transportation should be minimum, to avoid microbial proliferation.
(3) Cooked food served hot should be kept at a temperature of at least 600 C to prevent microbial growth.
(4) Cooked food to be served cold should be kept below 50 C to prevent growth of pathogens.
(5) All foods during transportation must be kept covered and in such a way as to limit pathogen growth or toxin
formation by controlling time of transportation, exposure, temperature control and using safe water for cleaning etc.
(7) Handling of food should be minimal. It should be ensured that utensils, crockery, cutlery and specially hands of
the food handlers/seller are clean and sanitized.
(8) All surplus food and unused thawed food should be discarded.
(9) Food to be kept for cold storage should be distributed in small volumes to ensure uniform cooling.
(10) Dry, fermented and acidified foods should be stored in cool and dry place.
(11) All packaged food viz. sterilized milk, bottled beverages, canned foods etc. should be stored properly during
transportation to ensure that seals remain intact and undamaged.
V . STORAGE
1. It is very important to store food properly for the purpose of food safety. Following things must be ensured:
z Foods should be cooked, stored and kept at right temperature
z Raw meat/poultry should be stored separately from other foods
z Veg. foods should always be stored above non-veg. foods and cooked foods above uncooked foods on
separate racks in the refrigerator.
z Storage temperature of frozen food should be -18oC or below.
z Cooked food to be eaten later should be cooled quickly, and kept it in the refrigerator - It is advisable to
put date on food packages or containers, using stickers or any other way of identification , before
keeping inside the refrigerator to keep track of food prepared date wise and use accordingly to minimise
wastage .
z Storage instructions over food packaging should be followed.
z Dried foods (such as grains and pulses) should be stored off the floor, ideally in sealable containers, to
allow proper cleaning and protection from pests.
Stock rotation
The rule for stock rotation is FIFO (first in, first out) to make sure that older food is used first. This will help to
prevent wastage.
VI. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH RISK FOODS
This section deals selectively with varieties of food which are high risk as per HACCP and may need special
attention. The type of foods covered here are as follows:
1. Cut fruits/salads, fresh juices and beverages