--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C62
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 33
Word Range: 16277 - 16672
Word Count: 396
--------------------

[Page 33]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 97
packaging from any damage during transport to the dairy establishment, and they shall have been stored there
under hygienic conditions in a room intended for that purpose;
(c) the rooms for storing the packaging material shall be free from vermin and from dust which could constitute
an unacceptable risk of contamination of the product and shall be separated from rooms containing substances
which might contaminate the products. Packaging shall not be placed directly on the floor;
(d) packaging shall be assembled under hygienic conditions before being brought into the room, except in the
case of automatic assembly or packaging, provided that there is no risk of contamination of the products;
(e) packaging shall be done without delay. It shall be handled by separate group of staff having experience in
handling and product wrapping and
(f) immediately after packaging, the dairy products shall be placed in the designated rooms provided for
storage under required temperature.
3. Bottling or filling of containers with heat-treated milk and milk product shall be carried out hygienically.
4. Wrapping or packaging may not be re-used for dairy products, except where the containers are of a type which
may be re-used after thorough cleaning and disinfecting.
5. Sealing shall be carried out in the establishment in which the last heat-treatment of milk or liquid milk-based
products have been carried out, immediately after filling, by means of a sealing device which ensures that the milk is
protected from any adverse effects of external origin on its characteristic. The sealing device shall be so designed that
once the container has been opened, the evidence of opening remains clear and easy to check.
PART IV
(See Regulation 2.1.2 (1)(5))
Specific Hygienic and Sanitary Practices to be followed by Food Business Operators engaged in manufacture,
processing, storing and selling of Meat and Meat Products
A. Slaughter House
Food Business Operator which slaughters large animals and small animals including sheep and goat or poultry birds
within the premises of his factory for production of meat/ meat products for supply / sale/ distribution to the public shall
comply with the following requirements:—
1. General Requirements:
1.1 No Objection Certificate to be obtained from local Authority before grant of license.
2. Location of Premises:
Such establishments / Slaughter Houses should be linked to a meat market located away from V egetable, fish
or other food markets and shall be free from undesirable odour, smoke, dust or other contaminants. The premises
shall be located at elevated level in a sanitary place.
3. Premise requirements:
3.1 The slaughter house shall have a reception area/animal holding yard/resting yard, lairage, slaughter hall,
side halls for hide collection, paunch collection, offals collection, and separation, holding room for suspected/
condemned carcass, by-product harvesting, refrigeration room/cold room etc.
3.2 Every such establishment / Slaughter House shall make separate provision in the slaughter hall for the
slaughter of different species which are proposed to be slaughtered (like large animal viz; Cattle and Buffalo, Pigs
and small animals like Sheep & Goat) and for different methods of slaughter (like Halal, Jewish and Jhatka). After
every type of operation the slaughter house shall be cleaned, washed wiped/dried and sanitized thoroughly.
3.3 The slaughter house shall have separation between clean and dirty sections and shall be so organized that
from the introduction of a live animal into the slaughter house up to the emergence of meat and offal classed as fit
for human consumption there shall be a continuous forward movement without any possibility of reversal, intersection
or overlapping between the live animal meat, and between meat and bye products or waste.