--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C102
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 47 to Page 48
Word Range: 27012 - 27261
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 47]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 111
3.02 The floor should be made of impervious and non-slippery materials with a slope for easy cleaning and removal
of filth, waste and dirty water. The slope of the floor shall not be less than 5 cm. for a floor of 3 meters.
3.03 All the fittings in the stall should be of non-corroding and non-rusting type.
3.04 All processing tables, racks, shelves, boards, etc. shall have zinc/aluminium/stainless steel/marble-granite top
to facilitate proper cleaning.
3.05 A sign board indicating the type of meat sold shall be displayed prominently. Nothing else but meat should be
sold at the premises.
3.06 The premises should have provision of sewer connection for drainage of wastewater.
3.07 There should be provision of continuous supply of potable water inside the premises. In case the water supply
is from bore well the arrangement for softening of water for making the same potable shall be made in the premises and
intermittent store arrangement should be made.
3.08 The door of the shop should be of self-closing type. The door of the shop should be of dark glass top and be
kept closed. No carcasses should be kept in a manner so as to be seen by the public from outside.
4. V entilation
4.01 The meat shop should be ventilated with facility of cross ventilation and may be provided with at-least one
electric fan and one exhaust fan.
4.02 The rails and hanging hooks, if provided for hanging carcasses, should be of non-corrosive metal. The non-
corrosive hanging hooks for carcasses shall be 30 cm. apart and the distance between rails shall be 60 to 70 cm. depending
upon the size of animals slaughtered and carcasses hanged.
5. Equipment and Accessories
5.01 The meat shop should have suitable arrangement for fly proofing in the form of air-curtains, flytraps, etc.
5.02 It should have display cabinet type refrigerator of size for maintaining a temperature of 4 to 8 degrees C. or
freezing cabinet if the meat is to be stored for more than 48 hours.
5.03 The weighing scales used shall be of a type which obviates unnecessary handling and contamination and the
plate sketch of the scale shall be made of stainless steel or nickel coated
5.04 The knives, tools and hooks used shall be made of stainless steel. Sufficient cupboards or racks should be for
storing knives, hooks, clothes and other equipments.
5.05 There should be a provision of geysers in all the meat shops to have hot water at a temperature not less than 82
degree C to clean the premises and equipment used in meat shop.
5.06 Washbasin made of stainless steel / porcelain shall be provided with liquid soap dispenser or other soap and
nail brush for thorough cleaning of hands.
5.07 The chopping block should be of food-grade synthetic material, which does not contaminate the meat. If the
block is of wooden it should be of hardwood trunk, which is solid enough and should not contaminate the meat.
5.08 A waste bin with a pedal operated cover shall be provided in the premises for collection of waste material.
6. Transportation
6.01 The transportation of carcasses from the slaughter house to the premises shall be done under hygienic
conditions in boxes of adequate size linked with zinc/aluminium/stainless steel or wire gauze meat safes, which must be
washed daily.
6.02 The transportation of carcasses from the slaughter house to the meat shops should be done in insulated
refrigerated vans. Under no circumstances, carcasses will be transported in vehicles used for commuting of human
beings, or in an exposed condition.
7. Pest Control
7.01 The meat shop should have an effective and continuous programme for control of insects, rodents or other
vermin within the premises. The surrounding area of the shop should also be free from insects, birds, rodents and other
vermin.

[Page 48]
112 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
7.02 The pest control measures adopted by the owner of shop should be kept as a record in the premises to be
shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities responsible for local administration/Corporation at the
time of inspection.
7.03 Chlorinated hydrocarbons, organo-phosphorus compounds and synthetic perithroids, rodenticides etc should
neither be used as pesticide nor shall be stored at the meat shop.
7.04 No live animals or birds should be allowed inside or adjacent to the meat shops.
8. Personnel Hygiene
8.01. Every person employed for meat handling at the meat shop shall be medically examined annually by a authorized
registered medical practitioner and examination shall include examination of sputum and x-ray of the chest for tuberculosis.
The medical examination shall also include examination of stool for protozoal and helminthic infestations for those
parasites, which are transmitted by ingestion, and also for the presence of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, Salmonella,
Shigella spieces and Vibrio cholera.
8.02. A certificate / records of medical fitness of all workers handling meat should be kept as a record in the premises
to be shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities responsible for local administration / Corporation
at the time of inspection.
8.03. No worker suspected to be suffering from fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, typhoid, dysentery or boils, cuts and
sores and ulcers (however small) shall be permitted to work in the meat shops.
8.04 All the workers of the meat shop shall keep their finger nails short and clean and wash their hands with soap or
detergent and hot water before commencement of work and after each absence, especially after using sanitary conveniences.
8.05. Eating, spitting, nose cleaning or the use of tobacco in any form or chewing betel leaves shall be prohibited
within the premises of meat shop processing, packing and storage area of the unit. "No smoking "and "No Spitting
"boards shall be prominently displayed in the shop.
9. Sanitary Practices
9.01 The chopping block should be sanitized daily by covering its top with sea-salt, after cleaning it with hot
water at close of business activity.
9.02 The floor should be washed with appropriate disinfectant / detergent / sanitizer at the start and close of
the business each working day.
9.03 There should be high standard of cleanliness and tidiness in the working area of shop with no organic or
other material lying on the floor.
9.04 The refrigerated / freezing cabinet should be regularly cleaned and well maintained.
9.05 Slaughtering of animal / birds inside the shop premises should be strictly prohibited.
9.06 The carcasses shall not be allowed to be covered with wet-clothes.
9.07 Wholesome meat obtained from the authorized slaughter house shall only be sold at the meat shops and
a record thereof shall be kept in the premises to be shown to any officer of the concerned Panchayats / Municipalities
responsible for local administration Corporation at the time of inspection.
9.08 Waste bins should be emptied, transported for disposal as per the arrangements made by the concerned
Panchayats / Municipalities and waste bin / dhalau ( burial pits) shall be treated daily with a disinfectant.
9.09 The premises shall not be used for residential purposes nor it shall communicate with any residential
quarter. No personal belonging like clothing, bedding, shoes etc. shall be kept in the premises. Only dressed
carcasses of clean meat shall be stored at the premises.
9.10 Hides, skins, hoofs, heads and unclean gut will not be allowed to be stored in the premises at any time.
9.11 The chopping instruments should be cleaned with hot water at a temperature of 82 degree C.
9.12 The preparation of food of any type inside the meat sale outlet should be strictly prohibited.
9.13 The meat obtained from unauthorized sources or unstamped meat is liable to be confiscated and destroyed.
9.14 Waste of the meat shop to be disposed of packed in heavy polythene bags in dhalaos (burial pits).