--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C108
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 50
Word Range: 28551 - 28800
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 50]
114 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
II. GOOD FOOD HYGIENE PRACTICES
1. Cleaning
z Food areas and equipment between different tasks, especially after handling raw food shall be cleaned.
z The surface shall be thoroughly cleaned in case if somebody spills food / water / drink.
z A systematic cleaning schedule and instructions has to be developed by the FBO.
z Food handlers should strictly follow the systematic cleaning schedule to make sure that surfaces and
equipment are cleaned when they need to be.
The schedule should include:
z what needs to be cleaned
z how often it needs to be cleaned
z how the cleaning should be done
Cleaning instructions should indicate:
z what cleaning products should be used
z how the products should be stored ( away from raw, cooked, packed food) and used
z how much they should be used or diluted
z how long that should be left in contact with the surface (following the manufacturer's instructions)
2. Raw materials
1. Raw materials shall be purchased from reliable and known dealers and checked for visible deterioration &
off- odour.
2. There should be no physical hazards and foreign body contamination.
1. Raw paste, sauces etc. should be stored in properly covered containers made of food grade material and
checked regularly for fungal growth, deterioration etc.
Preparation of fruits/ vegetables:
(1) Fruits and vegetables that have been protected from cross-contamination and properly conserved should
be used.
(3) Whole fruits and vegetables should be washed in potable water before being cut, mixed with other
ingredients. Uncooked, ready-to-eat fruits & vegetables should be with 50 ppm chlorinated water before cutting,
peeling or serving.
(4) Fruits and vegetables should be peeled, squeezed and/or cut, as appropriate, with clean equipment/
utensils made of non-absorbent food grade materials.
(5) Previously prepared fruits/vegetables should be kept in clean and properly covered food grade containers
under refrigeration or at a maximum temperature suitable for the product in question.
Preparation of Non-veg. Products:—
(1) Raw meat and processed meat should be separated from other foods; items and surfaces.
(2) Separate items (e.g. cutting boards, dishes, knives) and preparation area for raw meats and poultry and
marine products should be used to avoid cross contamination of food.
(3) Hands should be thoroughly washed before switching from preparing raw meat or poultry or marine
products to any other activity.
(4) Ensure proper cooking of all non vegetarian products.
(5) Used surfaces should be washed with antibacterial cleaning agent, rinsed properly with water and sanitized
after preparing raw meat/poultry.
(6) Ensure that frozen products are thawed as per point no. 9 under special requirements for high risk foods.