--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C13
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 37 to Page 38
Word Range: 17507 - 18724
Word Count: 1,218
--------------------

[Page 37]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 101
1.1 Only healthy animals in good condition shall be transported unless they are meant for emergency slaughter.
These animals should be certified by a qualified veterinary inspector for freedom from infectious diseases and ecto-
parasitic diseases and their fitness to undertake the journey.
1.2 When animals are to be transported from endemic areas of a disease to non-endemic areas, the animals
should be given protective vaccination and kept in quarantine for 30 days, before transportation.
1.3 Female animals in advanced stages of pregnancy shall not be transported.
1.4 When transporting large animals particularly bears/bulls, special arrangements by providing suitable
partitions should be made to protect the animals from infighting. Similar arrangements should also be made to
protect the young ones from being crushed when they are transported.
1.5 To avoid exhaustion, the animals shall be given humane treatment and care during transportation. The
animals shall not be bound or chained during transit and space provided for them shall be large enough to stand or
lie.
1.6 An attendant along with first aid equipment shall accompany the animals in transit.
1.7 Before loading, the animals should not be fed heavily. Only light feed may be allowed. For journeys less
than 12 hours no feed need be carried but for longer journeys sufficient feed shall be carried to last during the
journey. Watering facilities shall be provided at regular intervals.
1.8 Light and heavy animals shall be separated by providing partitions; animals from different pens/sheds
shall not be mixed during transportation. Male stock shall not be transported with female stock (adults).
1.9 All vehicles should be inspected for safety, suitability and cleanliness before loading the animals. The
floor and walls should be undamaged and there should be no nails or sharp projections which may injure the
animals.
1.10 The Vehicles should be thoroughly sprayed with suitable disinfectant before loading the animals.
1.11 A layer of clean sand to cover the floor to a thickness of not less than 6 cm shall be provided. This layer
of sand shall be moistened with water during the summer months. During hot months arrangements shall be made
to sprinkle water on the animals at frequent intervals. In winter, a 2-cm layer of clean sand with another 6-cm layer of
whole-straw shall be provided.
1.12 Animals when driven for loading or unloading shall never be struck with stick. Driving could best be done
by soft-rubber pipe.
1.13 If animals are to be transported in extreme cold or hot climate, it is preferable to transport them in covered
Lorries on road so that they may not die or get exhausted or suffer from acute respiratory disease. Journey under
such adverse climate shall be minimised.
1.14 Each consignment should bear a label showing the following particulars:
a) Number and kind of the animals loaded;
b) Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the consignor;
c) Name address and telephone number, if any, of the consignee;
d) Instructions regarding feeding and watering.
2.0 Loading
2.1 Loading during extremes of temperatures shall be avoided.
2.2 Suitable ramp shall be provided for loading and unloading the animals. The floor of the ramp shall have cleats at
intervals, so that animals do not slip as they climb or descend. The ramp shall be covered with straw to avoid slipping. At
any time of loading and unloading the vehicle shall be kept clean to avoid slipping of animals. Bale
2.3 In case of railway wagons when loading is done on the platform, the door of the wagon may be used as ramp. In
such cases, bales or bags of hay, agricultural wastes etc. may be placed on the either side of the dropped door to prevent
the animals from getting their legs between the sides of the wagons and platform.
3.0 Space Requirements
3.1 Overcrowding shall be avoided. Each animal shall have enough space to lie down.

[Page 38]
102 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
3.2 Railway wagons shall not accommodate more animals than those specified in IS specifications.
3.3 The speed of truck transporting animals shall not exceed 40 kilometres per hour, avoiding jerks and jolts. The
truck shall not load any other merchandise and shall avoid unnecessary stops on the road.
3.4 For journeys, exceeding 12 hours, the animals shall be transported by railway. Loading shall be done by evening.
4.0 Slaughter:
Animals are slaughtered by being first stunned and then exsanguinated (bled out). Stunning can be effected
through asphyxiating the animals with carbon dioxide, shooting them with a gun or a captive bolt pistol, or shocking them
with electric current.
4.1. Stunning:
Stunning before slaughter should be mandatory. By inducing unconsciousness and insensibility, stunning
can avoid and minimise reactions of fear and anxiety as well as pain, suffering and distress among the animals
concerned. Stunning methods induce temporary loss of consciousness and rely on prompt and accurate sticking
procedures to cause death.
It is important that the equipment utilized for stunning and slaughter is maintained in good working condition
and that all operators involved are well trained and have a positive attitude towards the welfare of animals.
Electrical stunning consists of passing electricity through the brain to produce instantaneous insensibility.
 The following method of slaughter shall be considered humane:—
 (i) Mechanical stunning of cattle may be carried out by one of three methods; captive bolt stunning,
mushroom head percussive stunning and pneumatic percussive stunning. For cattle, pneumatic stunning
should be preferred and the optimum position is that the centre of the stunner should contact the animal at a
point of intersection of lines drawn from the medial corners of the eyes and the base of the ears. The best
position for pigs is on the midline just above eye level, with the host directed down the line of the spinal cord.
The optimum position for sheep and goat is behind the poll, aiming towards the angle of the jaw. If an animal
shows signs of regaining consciousness after the initial stun, the animal must be immediately killed by the use
of a captive bolt gun.
 (ii) Electrical stunning - Electrical Head Stunners may be preferred for sheep and goat where both
electrodes are placed on the head region. Water bath electrical stunning may be used for poultry birds.  A low
and controlled voltage must be maintained so that the stunning will not damage the heart and brain or cause
physical disability and death to the animals.  The minimum current level recommended for stunning are
indicated in the table below.
Species Minimum current levels for head-only stunning
Cattle 1.5 Amps
Calves (bovines of less than 6 month of age) 1.0 Amps
Pigs 1.25 Amps
Sheep and goats 1.0 Amps
Lambs 0.7 Amps
Broilers 100 milli Amps
Turkeys 150 milli Amps
(iii) Gas stunning - Stunning of pigs by exposure to carbon dioxide (CO2) may be preferred. The
concentration of CO2 should be 90% by volume but shall not be less than 80% by volume. Ideally pigs should
be exposed for 3 minutes. Sticking should be done immediately after exit from the gas chamber. Over-crowding
of animals should be avoided in the gas chamber.
5. Precautions for animal welfare:
a. General:
(1) The floor of the slaughter area should not cause slipping or falling of animals.