--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 3
Word Range: 1767 - 2060
Word Count: 294
--------------------

[Page 3]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 67
2.1.2 License for food business
(1) Subject to Regulation 2.1.1, no person shall commence any food business unless he possesses a valid license.
Provided that any person or Food Business Operator carrying on food business on the date of notification of
these Regulations, under a license, registration or permission, as the case may be, under the Acts or Orders
mentioned in the Second Schedule of the Act shall get their existing license converted into the license/registration
under these regulations by making an application to the Licensing/Registering Authority after complying  with the
safety requirements mentioned in the Schedule 4 contained under different Parts dependent on nature of business,
within one year of notification of these Regulations. In case of difficulty, the licensing authority with the approval
of the Food Safety Commissioner in the State will determine the advisability of applying any specific condition
keeping in view the need to ensure safety of food and public interest. No license fee will have to be paid for the
remaining period of the validity of the earlier license or registration granted under any of the said Acts or Orders.
Non-compliance with this provision by a Food Business Operator will attract penalty under section 55 of the Act.
Provided further that any food business operator holding Registration/License under any other Act/Order as
specified under schedule 2 of the FSS Act, 2006 with no specific validity or expiry date, and other wise entitled to
obtain a license under these regulations, shall have to apply and obtain a Registration/License under these
Regulations within one year from the date of notification by paying the applicable fees.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Regulation 2.1.2(1) above or in any of the registration or
license certificates issued under existing Acts or Orders mentioned in the second schedule of the Act, the Licensing
Authority, if it has reason to believe that the  Food Business Operator  has failed to comply with all or any of the
conditions of the existing  registration or license  or the safety requirements given in Schedule 4, may give appropriate
direction to the  Food Business Operator to comply with.
(3) License for commencing or carrying on food business, which falls under Schedule 1, shall be granted by
the Central Licensing Authority, provided that Food Authority may through notification make such changes or
modify the list given in the Schedule I as considered necessary.
(4) License for commencing or carrying on food business, which are not covered under Schedule 1, shall be
granted by the concerned State/UT’s Licensing Authority.
(5) The  Food Business Operator  shall ensure that all conditions of license as provided in Annexure 2 of Form
B in Schedule 2 and safety, sanitary and hygienic requirements  provided in the Schedule 4 contained under different
Parts depending on nature of business are complied with at all times .
Provided that the Licensing Authority shall ensure periodical food safety audit and inspection of the licensed
establishments through its own or agencies authorized for this purpose by the FSSAI.
Provided further that no person shall manufacture, import, sell, stock, exhibit for distribution or sale any article
of food which has been subjected to the treatment of irradiation, except under a license obtained from Department
of Atomic Energy under the Atomic Energy (Control of Irradiation of Food) Regulations, 1996.
2.1.3 Application for license to the Licensing Authority
An application for the grant of a license shall be made in Form B of Schedule 2 to the concerned Licensing
Authority as specified in Regulation 2.1.2 (3) and 2.1.2 (4) and it will be accompanied by a self-attested declaration
in the format provided in the Annexure-1 and copies of documents mentioned in the Annexure 2 of Schedule-2 along
with the applicable fees prescribed in Schedule 3.
2.1.4 Processing of Application for license
(1) A license shall, subject to the provisions of these Regulations, be issued by the concerned Licensing
Authority within a period of 60 days from the date of issue of  an application ID number as provided in subsection
(3) below.
(2) If, upon scrutiny of the application within 15 days from the date of receipt of the application, the concerned
Licensing Authority requires any additional information with respect to an application or if the application is
incomplete, the Licensing Authority shall inform the applicant in writing, to furnish such additional information or
complete the application, as the case may be, within 30 days from such notice. In case the applicant fails to furnish
the required information within the stipulated time of 30 days, the application for license shall stand rejected.