--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C33
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 22
Word Range: 8477 - 8856
Word Count: 380
--------------------

[Page 22]
86 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
SCHEDULE - 3
(See Regulation 2.1.3)
FEE FOR GRANT/ RENEWAL OF LICENSE
REGISTRATION / LICENSE FEE PER ANNUM IN RUPEES
1. Fees for Registration Rs 100
2. Fees for License issued by Central
Licensing Authority: Rs 7500
3. Fees for License issued by State Licensing Authority:
1. Manufacturer /Miller
(i) Above 1MT per day Production or  10,001 to 50,000 LPD of milk or
501 to 2500 MT of milk solids per annum Rs. 5000/—
(ii) Below 1 MT of Production or 501 to 10,000 LPD of milk or 2.5 MT to 500 MT
of milk solids per annum Rs.3000/—
2. Hotels -3 Star and above Rs. 5000/—
3. All Food Service providers including restaurants/boarding houses, clubs etc. serving food,
Canteens (Schools, Colleges, Office, Institutions), Caterers, Banquet halls with food catering
arrangements, food vendors like dabba wallas etc Rs.  2000/—
4. Any other Food Business Operator  Rs. 2000/—
The fees paid by any applicant for a license shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Issue of Duplicate registration or License
(1) Where a registration certificate or license is lost, destroyed, torn, defaced or mutilated, the applicant may
apply for a duplicate copy of the registration certificate or license during the validity period, accompanied
with a fee amounting to 10% of the applicable License fee.
(2) On receipt of such an application, the Licensing Authority shall grant a duplicate copy of the registration
certificate or license, as the case may be to the applicant with the word "Duplicate" appearing prominently
thereon.
Mode of Payment
The payment shall be made by the Food Business Operator through Bank draft or online transfer or treasury chalan or any
other suitable means as specified by the Licensing Authority.
Schedule 4
(See Regulation 2.1.2)
General Hygienic and Sanitary practices to be followed by Food Business operators
 It is hereby recognized and declared as a matter of legislative determination that in the field of human nutrition, safe,
clean, wholesome food - is indispensable to the health and welfare of the consumer of the country; that - food is a
perishable commodity susceptible to contamination and adulteration; - and that - basic  sanitary and hygienic conditions
are deemed to be necessary for the production and distribution of milk - Meat products, service establishments etc.
The establishment in which food is being handled, processed, manufactured, stored, distributed by the food business
operator whether holder of registration certificate or a license as per the norms laid down in these regulations and the
persons handling them should conform to the sanitary and hygienic requirement, food safety measures  and other
standards as specified below. It shall also be deemed to be the responsibility of the food business operator to ensure
adherence to necessary requirements.
These are the basic - compulsory requirements for ensuring safety of the food manufactured in any premise and FBOs
shall continuously try to improve the sanitary and hygienic conditions at the premises with a goal of attaining India
HACCP standards within a - previously determined period.