--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C05
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 2 to Page 3
Word Range: 1017 - 1266
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 2]
66 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(b) such other food businesses including small scale or cottage or such other industries relating to food
business or tiny food businesses with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs 12 lakhs and/or  whose
(i) production capacity of food (other than milk and milk products and meat and meat products)
does not exceed 100 kg/ltr per day or
(ii) procurement or handling and collection of milk is up to 500 litres of milk per day or
(iii) slaughtering capacity is 2 large animals or 10 small animals or 50 poultry birds per day or less.
5. Registering Authority” means Designated Officer/ Food Safety Officer or any official in Panchayat, Municipal
Corporation or any other local body or Panchayat in an area, notified as such by the State Food Safety Commissioner
for the purpose of registration as specified in these Regulations.
6. “State Licensing Authority” means Designated Officers appointed under Section 36(1) of the Act by the
Food Safety Commissioner of a State or UT.
The expressions used in these Regulations but have not been defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Act or as provided in the regulations, chapters and Appendices.
Chapter-2
L
ICENSING AND REGISTRA TION OF FOOD BUSINESS
2. 1 Registration and Licensing of Food Business
All Food Business Operators in the country will be registered or licensed in accordance with the procedures laid
down hereinafter;
2.1.1 Registration of Petty Food Business
(1) Every petty Food Business Operator shall register themselves with the Registering Authority by submitting
an application for registration in Form A under Schedule 2 of these Regulations along with a fee as provided in
Schedule 3.
(2) The petty food manufacturer shall follow the basic hygiene and safety requirements provided in Part I of
Schedule 4 of these Regulations and provide a self attested declaration of adherence to these requirements with the
application in the format provided in Annexure-1 under Schedule 2.
(3) The Registering Authority shall consider the application and may either grant registration or reject it with
reasons to be recorded in writing or issue notice for inspection, within 7 days of receipt of an application for
registration.
(4) In the event of an inspection being ordered, the registration shall be granted by the Registering Authority
after being satisfied with the safety, hygiene and sanitary conditions of the premises as contained in Part II of
Schedule 4 within a period of 30 days.
If registration is not granted, or denied, or inspection not ordered within 7 days as provided in above sub
regulation (3) or no decision is communicated within 30 days as provided in above sub regulation (4), the petty food
manufacturer may start its business, provided that it will be incumbent on the Food Business Operator to comply
with any improvement suggested by the Registering Authority even later.
Provided that registration shall not be refused without giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard and
for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(5) The Registering Authority shall issue a registration certificate and a photo identity card, which shall be
displayed at a prominent place at all times within the premises or vehicle or cart or any other place where the person
carries on sale/manufacture of food in case of Petty Food Business.
(6) The Registering Authority or any officer or agency specifically authorized for this purpose shall carry out
food safety inspection of the registered establishments at least once in a year.
Provided that a producer of milk who is a registered member of a dairy Cooperative Society registered under
Cooperative Societies Act and supplies or sells the entire milk to the Society shall be exempted from this provision
for registration.

[Page 3]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 67
2.1.2 License for food business
(1) Subject to Regulation 2.1.1, no person shall commence any food business unless he possesses a valid license.
Provided that any person or Food Business Operator carrying on food business on the date of notification of
these Regulations, under a license, registration or permission, as the case may be, under the Acts or Orders
mentioned in the Second Schedule of the Act shall get their existing license converted into the license/registration
under these regulations by making an application to the Licensing/Registering Authority after complying  with the
safety requirements mentioned in the Schedule 4 contained under different Parts dependent on nature of business,
within one year of notification of these Regulations. In case of difficulty, the licensing authority with the approval
of the Food Safety Commissioner in the State will determine the advisability of applying any specific condition
keeping in view the need to ensure safety of food and public interest. No license fee will have to be paid for the
remaining period of the validity of the earlier license or registration granted under any of the said Acts or Orders.
Non-compliance with this provision by a Food Business Operator will attract penalty under section 55 of the Act.
Provided further that any food business operator holding Registration/License under any other Act/Order as
specified under schedule 2 of the FSS Act, 2006 with no specific validity or expiry date, and other wise entitled to
obtain a license under these regulations, shall have to apply and obtain a Registration/License under these
Regulations within one year from the date of notification by paying the applicable fees.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Regulation 2.1.2(1) above or in any of the registration or
license certificates issued under existing Acts or Orders mentioned in the second schedule of the Act, the Licensing
Authority, if it has reason to believe that the  Food Business Operator  has failed to comply with all or any of the
conditions of the existing  registration or license  or the safety requirements given in Schedule 4, may give appropriate
direction to the  Food Business Operator to comply with.
(3) License for commencing or carrying on food business, which falls under Schedule 1, shall be granted by
the Central Licensing Authority, provided that Food Authority may through notification make such changes or
modify the list given in the Schedule I as considered necessary.
(4) License for commencing or carrying on food business, which are not covered under Schedule 1, shall be
granted by the concerned State/UT’s Licensing Authority.
(5) The  Food Business Operator  shall ensure that all conditions of license as provided in Annexure 2 of Form
B in Schedule 2 and safety, sanitary and hygienic requirements  provided in the Schedule 4 contained under different
Parts depending on nature of business are complied with at all times .
Provided that the Licensing Authority shall ensure periodical food safety audit and inspection of the licensed
establishments through its own or agencies authorized for this purpose by the FSSAI.
Provided further that no person shall manufacture, import, sell, stock, exhibit for distribution or sale any article
of food which has been subjected to the treatment of irradiation, except under a license obtained from Department
of Atomic Energy under the Atomic Energy (Control of Irradiation of Food) Regulations, 1996.
2.1.3 Application for license to the Licensing Authority
An application for the grant of a license shall be made in Form B of Schedule 2 to the concerned Licensing
Authority as specified in Regulation 2.1.2 (3) and 2.1.2 (4) and it will be accompanied by a self-attested declaration
in the format provided in the Annexure-1 and copies of documents mentioned in the Annexure 2 of Schedule-2 along
with the applicable fees prescribed in Schedule 3.
2.1.4 Processing of Application for license
(1) A license shall, subject to the provisions of these Regulations, be issued by the concerned Licensing
Authority within a period of 60 days from the date of issue of  an application ID number as provided in subsection
(3) below.
(2) If, upon scrutiny of the application within 15 days from the date of receipt of the application, the concerned
Licensing Authority requires any additional information with respect to an application or if the application is
incomplete, the Licensing Authority shall inform the applicant in writing, to furnish such additional information or
complete the application, as the case may be, within 30 days from such notice. In case the applicant fails to furnish
the required information within the stipulated time of 30 days, the application for license shall stand rejected.