--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C02
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 4 to Page 5
Word Range: 1881 - 3403
Word Count: 1,523
--------------------

[Page 4]
68 THE  GAZETTE  OF  INDIA  :  EXTRAORDINARY [P ART III—S EC. 4]
(3) On the receipt of a complete application including the additional information if asked for, the Licensing
Authority shall issue an Application ID number to each applicant that will be referred to in all future correspondence
between the Licensing Authority and the applicant.
(4) After the issue of Application ID number the Licensing Authority may direct the Food Safety Officer or any
other person or agency specially designated for such functions to inspect the premises in the manner prescribed by
the Food Safety and Standard  Authority of India in accordance  with these Regulations.  Such Inspecting Officer or
person may issue a notice to the applicant, if it deems fit, guiding food business operator on necessary steps to be
taken or changes or alteration to be made in the premises in order to ensure general sanitary and hygienic conditions
as specified in Schedule 4. The applicant shall carry out the required steps, changes or alterations and intimate the
Licensing Authority within 30 days or such period as may be allowed by the Licensing Authority.
(5) Within a period of 30 days from receipt of an inspection report excluding the time taken by the applicant in
complying with the advice, if any, given in the inspection report and verification thereof, the concerned Licensing
Authority shall consider the application and may either grant license or reject the application.
Provided that before refusing license an applicant shall be given an opportunity of being heard and the
reasons for refusal shall be recorded in writing.
(6) The Licensing Authority shall issue a License in Format C under Schedule 2 of these Regulations, a true
copy of which shall be displayed at a prominent place at all times within the premises where the Food Business
Operator carries on the food business.
2.1.5 Procedure for License in certain local areas
(1) A single license may be issued by the Licensing Authority for one or more articles of food and also for
different establishments or premises in the same local area including collection and chilling units run by milk
cooperatives or its members.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India in the capacity of Food
Safety Commissioner may  appoint a Designated Officer or Food Safety Officer for Central Government organizations
like Railways, Defense etc., which have a large number of food establishments, to ensure food safety in those
establishments and to ensure that all other conditions laid down for running food business under the Act and these
Regulations are complied with. Provided further that the Food Authority may carry out food safety audit of these
establishments once in a year through its own or accredited agencies.
2.1.6 Commencement of Business
An applicant may commence his food business and the concerned licensing Authority shall not deny the
applicant to commence such business if, from the date of making the completed application, a license is not issued
within 60 days or the applicant has not received any intimation of inadequacy under Regulation 2.1.4(2) or inspection
report indicating defects from the concerned Licensing Authority under Regulation 2.1.4(4)
2.1.7 V alidity and Renewal of Registration and License
(1) A Registration or license granted under these Regulations shall be valid and subsisting, unless otherwise
specified,  for a period of 1 to 5 years as chosen by the Food Business Operator, from  the date of issue of registration
or license subject to remittance of fee applicable for the period and compliance with all conditions of license.
(2) Any application for the renewal of a registration or license granted under these Regulations shall be made
in Form A or B of Schedule 2, as the case may be, not later than 30 days prior to the expiry date indicated in the
license.
(3) The Registration or License shall continue to be in force till such time that the orders are passed on the
renewal application which in no case shall be beyond 30 days from the date of expiry of registration or license.
(4) Any renewal application filed beyond the period mentioned under Regulation 2.1.7 (2) above but before the
expiry date, shall be accompanied by a late fee of Rs 100 per day for each day of delay.
(5) Any Registration or license for which renewal has not been applied for within the period mentioned in
Regulation 2.1.7 (2) or 2.1.7 (4) above shall expire and the Food Business Operator shall stop all business activity at
the premises. The Food Business Operator will have to apply for fresh Registration or license as provided in
Regulation 2.1.1 and 2.1.3 as the case may be, if it wants to restart the business.

[Page 5]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 69
(6) Food Business Operator having valid certificate of an accredited food safety auditor or from an agency
accredited by Food Authority or any other organisation notified by food Authority for this purpose will not be
normally required to be inspected before renewal of license.
Provided that Designated Officer may order an inspection before renewal if considered necessary for reasons
to be recorded in writing.
2.1.8 Suspension or cancellation of Registration Certificate or license
(1) The Registering or Licensing Authority in accordance with the provisions of section 32 of the Act may,
after giving the concerned Food Business Operator a reasonable opportunity of being heard, suspend any registration
or license in respect of all or any of the activities for which the registration/license has been  granted under these
Regulations after recording a brief statement of the reasons for such suspension, if there is reason to believe that
the Food Business Operator has failed to comply with the conditions within the period mentioned in any Improvement
Notice served under Section 32 of the Act. A copy of such statement shall be furnished to the concerned Food
Business Operator whose Registration or license has been suspended.
(2) The registering or Licensing Authority, as the case may be, may direct an inspection of the Food Business
Operator’s premise(s) within a reasonable period which shall not be less than 14 days from the date of order of
suspension.
(3) In the event that the Registering or Licensing Authority is of the opinion, on a review of the inspection
report, that the Food Business Operator has still failed to rectify the defects or omissions or comply with the
conditions of the improvement notice causing the suspension, such authority may cancel the license/registration of
the Food Business Operator after giving him an opportunity to show cause as provided under Section 32 (3) of the
Act.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations, the Registering or Licensing Authority may
suspend or cancel any registration or license forthwith in the interest of public health for reasons to be recorded in
writing.
(5) A suspension or cancellation of registration or license under these Regulations shall not entitle the Food
Business Operator for any compensation or refund of fee(s) paid in respect of the registration certificate or license
or renewal thereof.
(6) After a period of 3 months from the date of cancellation under Regulation 2.1.8 (3) above the Food Business
Operator may make fresh application for Registration or license to the concerned authority if all  observations made
in the improvement notice have been complied with. .
2.1.9 Modifications, Expansion or Changes in premise(s) after grant of license or registration
(1) Food Business Operators shall ensure that the Registering or Licensing Authority always has up-to-date
information on their food business establishments and shall inform the relevant Authority of any modifications or
additions or changes in product category, layout, expansion, closure, or any other material information based on
which the license was granted and such information shall be conveyed before the changes occur.
Provided that any change that alters the information contained in the license certificate shall require an
approval or endorsement in license prior to start of business with such changes. The Food Business Operator shall
submit the original license to the Licensing Authority along with a fee equivalent to one year license fee for effecting
necessary changes. The licensing Authority may approve and issue an amended license incorporating such changes
in activities within 30 days from the date of receipt of such information. While approving the afore mentioned
changes the concerned registering or Licensing Authority shall take into account the feasibility of carrying on the
business and the legal and other relevant aspects of the desired modifications or additions or changes in activities
and, if required, may order an inspection of the premises before granting the approval.
2.1.10 Mode of payment:
All fees and charges payable under these regulations shall be paid vide pay order or demand draft or any online
mode of payment as may be prescribed in this regard, by the concerned Food Safety Commissioner.
2.1.11 Transfer of registration certificate or License in case of death
(1) In the event of death of the holder of a  Registration certificate or license, such certificate or license shall
subsist for the benefit of the legal representative or any family member of the deceased or until the expiry of:—