--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-FSSAI-001-C74
Parent Doc ID: A-FSSAI-001
Page Range: Page 37
Word Range: 19423 - 19672
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 37]
¹Hkkx III— [k.M 4º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 101
1.1 Only healthy animals in good condition shall be transported unless they are meant for emergency slaughter.
These animals should be certified by a qualified veterinary inspector for freedom from infectious diseases and ecto-
parasitic diseases and their fitness to undertake the journey.
1.2 When animals are to be transported from endemic areas of a disease to non-endemic areas, the animals
should be given protective vaccination and kept in quarantine for 30 days, before transportation.
1.3 Female animals in advanced stages of pregnancy shall not be transported.
1.4 When transporting large animals particularly bears/bulls, special arrangements by providing suitable
partitions should be made to protect the animals from infighting. Similar arrangements should also be made to
protect the young ones from being crushed when they are transported.
1.5 To avoid exhaustion, the animals shall be given humane treatment and care during transportation. The
animals shall not be bound or chained during transit and space provided for them shall be large enough to stand or
lie.
1.6 An attendant along with first aid equipment shall accompany the animals in transit.
1.7 Before loading, the animals should not be fed heavily. Only light feed may be allowed. For journeys less
than 12 hours no feed need be carried but for longer journeys sufficient feed shall be carried to last during the
journey. Watering facilities shall be provided at regular intervals.
1.8 Light and heavy animals shall be separated by providing partitions; animals from different pens/sheds
shall not be mixed during transportation. Male stock shall not be transported with female stock (adults).
1.9 All vehicles should be inspected for safety, suitability and cleanliness before loading the animals. The
floor and walls should be undamaged and there should be no nails or sharp projections which may injure the
animals.
1.10 The Vehicles should be thoroughly sprayed with suitable disinfectant before loading the animals.
1.11 A layer of clean sand to cover the floor to a thickness of not less than 6 cm shall be provided. This layer
of sand shall be moistened with water during the summer months. During hot months arrangements shall be made
to sprinkle water on the animals at frequent intervals. In winter, a 2-cm layer of clean sand with another 6-cm layer of
whole-straw shall be provided.
1.12 Animals when driven for loading or unloading shall never be struck with stick. Driving could best be done
by soft-rubber pipe.
1.13 If animals are to be transported in extreme cold or hot climate, it is preferable to transport them in covered
Lorries on road so that they may not die or get exhausted or suffer from acute respiratory disease. Journey under
such adverse climate shall be minimised.
1.14 Each consignment should bear a label showing the following particulars:
a) Number and kind of the animals loaded;
b) Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the consignor;
c) Name address and telephone number, if any, of the consignee;
d) Instructions regarding feeding and watering.
2.0 Loading
2.1 Loading during extremes of temperatures shall be avoided.
2.2 Suitable ramp shall be provided for loading and unloading the animals. The floor of the ramp shall have cleats at
intervals, so that animals do not slip as they climb or descend. The ramp shall be covered with straw to avoid slipping. At
any time of loading and unloading the vehicle shall be kept clean to avoid slipping of animals. Bale
2.3 In case of railway wagons when loading is done on the platform, the door of the wagon may be used as ramp. In
such cases, bales or bags of hay, agricultural wastes etc. may be placed on the either side of the dropped door to prevent
the animals from getting their legs between the sides of the wagons and platform.
3.0 Space Requirements
3.1 Overcrowding shall be avoided. Each animal shall have enough space to lie down.