--- PAGE 1 ---
Special Issue Article
More Than Meets the Eye: Misconduct and
Decoupling Against Blockchain for Supply
Chain T ransparency
Leonardo Marques1, Dafne Morais 2 and Ana T erra3
Production and Operations Management
2025, V ol. 34(5) 1057–1075
© The Author(s) 2024
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/10591478231224928
journals.sagepub.com/home/pao
Abstract
The fashion industry has consistently ranked high in terms of its association with modern slavery. While scandals like the Rana
Plaza incident have focused the world’s attention on Asia, in Brazil, over 35,000 people have been rescued from conditions
analogous to slavery in the past 15 years. Outsourcing and the underlying social structures that blur the implementation
of outsourcing are central to this problem. Fashion supply chains are highly fragmented and labour intensive, exhibiting
power asymmetry and informality. Although supply chain research has focused on how focal ﬁrms can control or improve
supplier practices, this study examines focal ﬁrm misconduct and decoupling. Our research presents an intervention aimed
at developing a blockchain solution to create a census of fashion working conditions in Brazil. The project included two non-
governmental organisations, two fashion brands and their suppliers, the fashion retail association, a blockchain start-up and
the research team (18 organisations). We contribute to both theory and practice, revealing that the blockchain’s potential to
ease transaction costs is outweighed by governance costs related to third-party supervision. We show that focal ﬁrms justify
unfair purchasing practices via victimisation and diverting attention from themselves to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and
suppliers (‘not behaving as expected’), unveiling how these drivers of organisational misconduct lead to supplier decoupling
(means–end) and focal ﬁrm decoupling (policy–practice). Such underlying social structures sustain inaction or , at best, advance
focal ﬁrms’ visibility of their supply chains while offering no true transparency to the broader society.
Keywords
Modern slavery, supply chain transparency, decoupling, organisational misconduct, blockchain
Date received 1 November 2021; accepted 2 October 2023 after six revisions
Handling Editors: Sajad Fayezi, Amy V . Benstead, Stefan Gold, Robert Klassen and Luk Van Wassenhove
1 Introduction
Modern slavery increased by 10 % from 2016 to 2021 and
now affects over 49 million people, with over 17 million in
the private economy (International Labor Organization et al.,
2022). Fashion, which employs one in six people on the planet,
is among the top-ranked industries. It is a low-technology
and labour-intensive ﬁeld that offers low entry barriers to
new and informal suppliers while hosting modern slavery-
related issues (Zorzini et al., 2015). In the fashion industry,
outsourcing sewing in garment production is a common prac-
tice for reducing cost and transparency (Perry et al., 2014).
However, outsourcing along supply chain tiers often leads to
informal and hidden contracting schemes (Nath et al., 2020;
Soundararajan et al., 2021).
Major scandals in the fashion industry such as the Rana
Plaza incident have focused the world’s attention on Asia
(Wang, 2020), but modern slavery persists across the Global
South as well. In Brazil, for example, infringements related
to modern slavery remain frequent. Brazil is a country that
contains all levels of the fashion supply network – ﬁbre
cultivation, weaving, manufacturing and retailing – and this
industry generates around 90 billion US dollars annually (top
ﬁve globally
1). This economic vigour distracts attention from
the fact that outsourcing involves blurred boundaries between
focal ﬁrms and suppliers who are dependent on them but do
1Supply Chain Management, Audencia Business School, Nantes, France
2Centro Universitário FEI, São Paulo, Brazil
3Instituto Coppead de Administração, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Corresponding author:
Leonardo Marques, Supply Chain Management, Audencia Business School,
8 Route de la Jonelière, Nantes 44312, France.
Email: lmarques@audencia.com


--- PAGE 2 ---
1058 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
not have appropriate contracts. This blurred liability hinders
law enforcement, which is crucial for controlling modern slav-
ery. While European legislation on supply chain due diligence
has evolved consistently, in less privileged countries, regula-
tory progression has been less steady. In the context of Brazil,
modern slavery legislation has experienced setbacks during
the 2016–2022 period. The most important tool, ‘The Slav-
ery Dirty List’ [free translation], was attacked by corporate
lobbyists, who called for its discontinuation in 2016, a matter
that escalated to the Supreme Court in 2020.
2 A recent study
mapped 208 legal processes heard by the Brazilian Superior
Labour Court (2013–2018) associating modern slavery condi-
tions to fashion outsourcing. The study showed that penalty
fees were often issued but unpaid. In 2018 alone, 30 ﬁrms
were ﬁned the equivalent of 3.5 million US dollars, but only
0.3 % of this amount had been paid by 2020 (Marques et al.,
2021). In recent years, the numbers have worsened. According
to the International Labor Organization, over 35,000 people
had been rescued from modern slavery in Brazil during the
2000–2015 period, but 600 of them ended up in similar condi-
tions at least a second time (International Labor Organization,
2018). In São Paulo, Brazil’s largest city, a 200 % increase in
modern slavery was recorded in 2021, when the COVID-19
pandemic served as an excuse for a slowdown on monitoring.
3
Supply chain transparency and monitoring are keys to
ﬁghting modern slavery. Although major scandals tend to
attract societal and academic attention, modern slavery per-
sists as a gradual, continuous threat that often ﬁnds a home
in the multitiered nature of supply chains (Busse et al., 2016;
Tachizawa and W ong, 2015). Since the early 1990s, supply
chain transparency has slowly evolved based on supplier audits
(Stevenson and Cole, 2018). Focal ﬁrms may either engage in
monitoring themselves and/or resort to third parties to achieve
audit capillarity, yet problem detection at the sub-supplier level
is limited (Benstead et al., 2018; Nath et al., 2020). Audit
schemes tend to work based on annual local visits. Unique
traits of the Brazil context include the low traceability of
buyer–supplier contracts, spread informality and lenient leg-
islation. In fact, Brazilian legislation favours outsourcing and
small-scale sewing cells with no more than 30 workers each.
Hence, suppliers often split production across multiple sewing
cells to beneﬁt from tax advantages. Such complexity and
dispersion make audit schemes ineffective, providing fertile
conditions for modern slavery that are often vexed, dynamic
and partially hidden (Christ et al., 2020). However, there is
scant research on the failure of audit schemes or alternative
solutions for overcoming this issue.
As transparency starts with traceability, blockchain tech-
nology (henceforth blockchain) has emerged as a holy
grail (Mithas et al., 2022; Sunar and Swaminathan, 2022).
Blockchain research began in 2008 in information systems
scholarship, and publication output exploded in 2016 (Queiroz
et al., 2019). By 2018, the ﬁrst theoretical studies and reviews
had hit the operations and supply chain management (OSCM)
ﬁeld. Treiblmaier (2018) and Saberi et al. (2018) proposed
transaction costs as a lens to understand how the blockchain
could reshape supply chains. However, empirical work has
only recently been published, and applications are mostly
led by start-ups (see: Benstead et al., 2022; Danese et al.,
2021). Most importantly, critical research on the trade-offs
of blockchain implementation is even scarcer (Murray et al.,
2021).
Our study begins by asking the following research question
(RQ1): To what extent can blockchain reduce transaction costs
while improving supply chain transparency?
However, blockchain initiatives to improve supply chain
transparency will likely face resistance. Such resistance could
relate to the emerging technology itself (Sodhi et al., 2022)
or to the consequences of higher supply chain transparency
(Chen et al., 2022). One particular form of organisational
resistance to new policies that has been increasingly discussed
in the OSCM ﬁeld is decoupling (Nath et al., 2020). Decou-
pling can occur between policy and practice, for example,
between those who set the policy and those who manage daily
practice. As long as the policy pleases external stakeholders,
what the organisation does internally actually goes untouched
(Barratt and Choi, 2007). Decoupling can also be expressed
as a gap between means and ends, where policies are indeed
implemented but are only weakly related to daily practices
(Bromley and Powell, 2012). Initiatives that improve trans-
parency in complex and hidden supply chains may face both
forms of decoupling as a reaction (Wijen, 2014).
Modern slavery is ‘not a single, one-off emergency but
rather a gradual, continuous threat’, which ‘coupled with the
hidden and complex nature of’ supply chains may lead to
inaction (Stevenson, 2022, p. 133). The Global South institu-
tional context further favours decoupling. However, previous
research has only focused on supplier decoupling (Huq and
Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020; Silvestre, 2015). Our
research expands the scope of the analysis to both focal ﬁrms’
and suppliers’ complementary forms of decoupling – and,
most importantly, the reasons behind such dynamics.
W e therefore complement RQ1 with RQ2:Why does decou-
pling emerge as a reaction to supply chain transparency
against modern slavery?
Our study was conducted as intervention-based research
(IBR; Hasle and V ang, 2021), using the fashion supply net-
work as the level of analysis. The intervention included fashion
brands and their supply chains, a blockchain start-up and
non-governmental organisations (NGOs), in line with calls
for interactions with less traditional stakeholders (Marques,
2019). By expanding the transaction costs lens from the dyad
to network level, we found that the blockchain governance
costs outweigh the expected savings in local audits. Elabo-
rating on the drivers of organisational misconduct and decou-
pling, we mapped how multitiered supply chains may actually
be used to conceal focal ﬁrm misconduct (Kim et al., 2019),
helping fashion supply chain actors buffer practices to protect
themselves from exposure and outside inspection (Bromley
and Powell, 2012). As a result, decoupling was exposed both

--- PAGE 3 ---
Marques et al. 1059
at the supplier (means–end decoupling) and at the focal ﬁrm
(policy–practice decoupling).
The Global South offers opportunities to research unstable
macroeconomic conditions and unique social issues (Aguinis
et al., 2020; Özkazanç-Pan, 2008). OSCM scholarship has so
far emphasised the misbehaviour of Global South suppliers
as the key cause of unsustainability (see: Asif, 2020; Vil-
lena, 2018) while proposing that Global North focal ﬁrms
are the ones responsible for changing the status quo (see:
Gold et al., 2013; Villena and Gioia, 2018). The predomi-
nant assumptions have ascribed power and autonomy to focal
ﬁrms while blaming weaker partners in the Global South
for risks related to greenwashing or modern slavery condi-
tions (Carmagnac et al., 2022; Glover and Touboulic, 2020).
Y et, (North)buyer–(South)supplier relationships are often dis-
guised as collaborative, even though they are actually detri-
mental to the supplier side (Chen et al., 2022). Moreover,
focal ﬁrm collaboration through third-party certiﬁcation can
‘fracture over time’, therefore ‘eroding’ trust in joint auditing
efforts (Benstead et al., 2018, p. 2307). The failure of supplier
audit schemes has often been used an excuse to support the vic-
timisation of focal ﬁrms (Parmigiani and Rivera-Santos, 2015;
Silvestre, 2015; Wu and Jia, 2018). Thus, our work offers a
critique of such dynamics, exposing focal ﬁrm liability for per-
petuating unfair purchasing practices that lead to decoupling
and modern slavery risk.
In the remainder of this article, we discuss the theoretical
background, followed by the methodology and the elements of
IBR. Next, we present the ﬁndings and discussion, including
ﬁve propositions. Finally, conclusions are provided along with
future research directions.
2 Theoretical Background
2.1 T ransaction Costs in Supply Chain T ransparency
Transaction costs include the costs of negotiating, implement-
ing and monitoring a focal ﬁrm’s supply contracts (Emery
and Marques, 2011). Transaction costs are driven by bounded
rationality and opportunism. The former assumes that cog-
nitive competence is a limited resource. Thus, transactions
that demand signiﬁcant cognitive capacity will tend to be
costly, and contracts will be incomplete (Williamson, 2008).
The latter assumes that economic actors pursuing self-interest
may engage in incomplete or distorted information disclosure
(McIvor, 2009). Bounded rationality and opportunism thus
increase transaction costs, which are barriers to market gov-
ernance. As noted by Lumineau and Oliveira (2020, p. 74),
‘if individuals never engaged in opportunistic behaviour, then
the market would sufﬁce for the mediation of all transactions’.
Therefore, focal ﬁrms tend to be attracted by alternatives,
such as those offered by new technology, which can alleviate
transaction costs.
Opportunistic behaviour and the associated transaction
costs that are incurred to prevent it from happening have
been widely discussed. Moreover, transaction cost theory has
become a top-of-mind lens in OSCM scholarship (Touboulic
and Walker, 2015b), which has expanded on the notions
of transaction costs from the dyad to discussing challenges
related to multitier supply chains (Meinlschmidt et al., 2018).
In the Global South context, research has emphasised insti-
tutional voids, that is, the lack of legislation enforcement,
mock compliance from suppliers and focal ﬁrms’ disregard for
supplier violations, all pointing towards supplier opportunism
(Huq and Stevenson, 2018). In 2020, Lumineau and Oliveira
(2020) called for an increased focus the study of opportunism
and for future research on new technologies (e.g., blockchain).
The authors also invited research on empirical contexts
beyond the US and Europe. The more complex the supply
chain, the higher the transaction costs will be to control suppli-
ers and the higher the information asymmetry, which prevents
the exposure of organisational misconduct. Information asym-
metry thus hinders public scrutiny and supports misconduct
(Marshall et al., 2016).
Fashion supply chains are particularly salient regarding
misconduct for two main reasons. First, misconduct is par-
ticularly hard to trace, given its complexity and dispersion,
and modern slavery often does not occur within the focal
ﬁrms’ direct purview but rather beyond the ﬁrst-tier suppli-
ers (Busse et al., 2016; Nath et al., 2020; Tachizawa and
W ong, 2015). Further, multi-sourcing is a common practice
in the fashion industry, and such strategies have been posited
as a way to conceal buyer misconduct (Kim et al., 2019).
Multi-sourcing accompanied by multitiered structures thus
concentrate the labour force in labour-intensive (tier-2) sewing
cells,
4 also called sweatshops to denote modern slavery. In
these sewing cells, which are mostly located in low-cost coun-
tries, informal arrangements prevail and fragile regulation
limits social control. Ultimately, supply network complexity
may result in a strain between the means and ends, which
may be used as justiﬁcations for inaction (Caruana et al.,
2020).
The second reason fashion supply chains are rife with mis-
conduct is the difﬁculty in deﬁning how unacceptable working
conditions must be to constitute modern slavery. Modern
slavery involves workers’ physical and mental conditions at
work (Christ et al., 2020). Even when freedom of move-
ment may be preserved, precarious working conditions may
constitute modern slavery (Kahya, 2007; Wiengarten et al.,
2021). Appendix 1 presents the associated terminologies (see:
e-companion).
Improving supply chain transparency to trace instances of
less-extreme versions of poor working conditions in supply
chains can reveal darker versions of forced labour, which are
the most difﬁcult to expose. Tracing modern slavery within
multitiered structures is a particular challenge (Busse et al.,
2016). The transaction costs of third-party audits are high,
even for large focal ﬁrms that resort to cooperation and
resource sharing in audit schemes (Benstead et al., 2021).
However, some large focal ﬁrms have developed their own
standards based on the argument that there is no one-size-

--- PAGE 4 ---
1060 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
ﬁts-all solution. Consequently, the lack of standardisation and
lack of industry-level action are obstacles in the ﬁght against
modern slavery (Fudge and McCann, 2015).
2.2 Blockchain as a Solution to Supply Chain
T ransparency
In recent years, blockchain has been promoted as a tool for
supply chain transparency at a systemic level. Since 2018,
OSCM scholarship has argued that it can be used to enact sys-
temic solutions to sustainability while easing transaction costs
(Saberi et al., 2018; Treiblmaier, 2018).
A blockchain is a distributed system for capturing and
storing a consistent, immutable linear event log of transac-
tions (ledger) between networked actors (Queiroz et al., 2019).
There are certain key principles that deﬁne a blockchain. First,
the information control is decentralised: every piece of infor-
mation is broadcast to all other nodes, meaning that there is no
need for a central authority to approve transactions. Second,
the identity behind transactions is protected, and authenti-
cation is conducted by nodes of the network, providing a
combination of transparency and conﬁdentiality. Third, once
a transaction is included in the blockchain, it becomes almost
impossible to alter the ledger. Fourth, it is possible to write
programs, that is, smart contracts, which deﬁne what needs to
be checked for a transaction to be conﬁrmed and registered
(Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016).
First adopted by the ﬁnancial markets, blockchain had been
discussed in other industries as well, such as pharmaceutical
products, containers, wood and food. Blockchain applications
can also include real-time monitoring supported by technolo-
gies like radio frequency, global positioning systems and inter
of things, all of which allow tracking goods in real time and
knowing who is performing what in various sectors (e.g., con-
tainer or supplier monitoring) (Kshetri, 2018). Blockchain
applications can use smart contracts to reduce friction (i.e.,
transaction costs) and support peer-to-peer and collective bar-
gaining (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016).
Further, it has been posited that blockchain can ease trans-
action costs (Saberi et al., 2018) or even eliminating such
costs completely (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016). For exam-
ple, blockchain applications can serve as a reputation sys-
tem that replaces fraudulent rating systems, thus allowing
ﬁrms to establish the trustworthiness of suppliers (Efanov and
Roschin, 2018). Studies suggest that blockchain can not only
reduce the effort and the number of intermediates but also
the time needed to monitor suppliers. In addition, smart con-
tracts can increase the level of automation in the signing of
buyer–supplier contracts (Shermin, 2017). Beyond transac-
tion costs, it has been argued that blockchain can address core
challenges studied in OSCM research: diminishing the bull-
whip effect, improving integration and offering scalability to
logistics monitoring, all of these particularly useful for multi-
tier structures (Agrawal et al., 2021). For example, it might
help in avoiding situations like the infamous Chipotle food
contamination case, where the lack of ability to monitor sup-
pliers in real time made it impossible to prevent the breaching
of quality standards (Kshetri, 2018).
Ultimately, blockchain could be the key to scalable sup-
ply chain transparency. Supply chain transparency can include
data about employees clocking in and out of a factory to
gauge whether the factory is complying with labour regula-
tions (Stevenson, 2022). Blockchain has been presented as
the twenty-ﬁrst century’s ‘shop-lifting camera’, which com-
bines three elements: traceability, decentralisation of data
collection/validation, and breach-proof conﬁdentiality (Sher-
min, 2017). Such technology is well suited to complex sup-
ply networks. However, there few empirical studies have
addressed the impact of blockchain on social issues in the sup-
ply chain (Pournader et al., 2019). Thus, questions remain:
Could blockchains replace traditional monitoring schemes
(Greve et al., 2010)? Could this technology reduce miscon-
duct in supply chains in a frictionless manner (low transaction
costs)?
In contrast to the overwhelming positive appraisals of
blockchain, recent studies by Murray et al. (2021) and Pun
et al. (2021) have focused on governance and implementation
costs, which are neglected by most researchers. Governance
costs are related to data security issues and the ‘oracle prob-
lem’. Data security costs reﬂect additional controls for emer-
gent blockchain solutions before achieving scale/trust of all
involved actors. Fears related to data security give rise to pre-
emptive efforts to avoid errors resulting from removing human
discretion. When blockchain usage leads to a dispute between
two parties, the need for third-party arbitration may lead to
extra costs. Oracle costs refer to impartial third-party experts
who are hired to design smart contracts and/or assess data
quality (Murray et al., 2021). Thus, such governance costs,
most salient during implementation, offer trade-offs to trans-
action costs. Ignoring these costs may lead to misjudgements
in cost analyses (Pun et al., 2021) and disappointment when
inﬂated expectations are not met (Sodhi et al., 2022).
2.3 Decoupling as a Reaction to Supply Chain
T ransparency
Besides misjudging unforeseen costs, it is likely that
blockchain-based initiatives for improving supply chain trans-
parency may face resistance. For example, ﬁrms may resist the
disclosure of their supply chains (Doorey, 2011), the emerg-
ing technologies and the change that they provoke (Sodhi
et al., 2022), and the greater fairness that may result from
transparency (Chen et al., 2022). One particular form of organ-
isational resistance to new policies increasingly discussed in
the OSCM ﬁeld is decoupling (Nath et al., 2020).
The foundations of decoupling date back to the 1970s.
W eick (1976, p. 4) stated that ‘intentions are a poor guide
for action, intentions often follow rather than precede action,
and that intentions and action are loosely coupled’. Meyer and
Rowan (1977) framed decoupling as a thoughtful disconnec-
tion between organisational structures aiming at legitimacy

--- PAGE 5 ---
Marques et al. 1061
and daily organisational practices. However, only recently has
OSCM scholarship begun to consider decoupling (Barratt and
Choi, 2007), and most recent research has investigated decou-
pling in suppliers’ response to pressures related to sustainabil-
ity (Huq and Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020). W e centre
our analysis on decoupling while expanding the scope to the
interplay between focal ﬁrms’ and suppliers’ complementary
forms of decoupling.
Decoupling has been conceptualised at two levels:
policy–practice and means–ends. It is valuable to distinguish
between these two forms because of their varied conse-
quences for organisations (Bromley and Powell, 2012). The
policy–practice gap exposes the misalignment between policy
and practice over time. Policy–practice decoupling allows
organisations to adopt conﬂicting policies in response to
external pressures without disturbing their daily operations
(Bromley and Powell, 2012). Often, decoupling occurs across
the organisational hierarchy: Those in charge of policy
please external stakeholders, while those in charge of daily
activities continue to perform untouched (Barratt and Choi,
2007). Such isolation in daily activities has been framed as
‘buffering’ (Bromley and Powell, 2012), that is, as long as
policy adoption alone builds legitimacy, real change can be
delayed. Arguments for delaying action include a lack of
capacity and the need for time and costs to adapt (Nath et al.,
2020).
In means–end decoupling, policies are implemented that
have a weak relationship with the intended outcomes (Asif,
2020). Organisations are inherently complex. Within that com-
plexity, organisational participants may consciously recog-
nise that some actions are of limited utility but still pur-
sue them to please some stakeholders (Bromley and Powell,
2012). The allocation of resources between practices that
only aim at legitimacy and core practices disperses energy.
A lack of transparency increases the potential of dissoci-
ation between means and ends and eventually renders the
implementation of sustainability standards impossible (Wijen,
2014).
Focal ﬁrms that prioritise their reputation will often trans-
fer responsibility for issues related to modern slavery to their
suppliers (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021). In other words,
they deﬁne policy, but action is ‘outsourced’ to their supply
chain, thereby overburdening suppliers. This is probably why
previous research has focused on supplier decoupling, specif-
ically as means–end decoupling. Suppliers may engage in a
concealment strategy, attempting to prevent nonconformity
with sustainability practices by deliberately hiding their vio-
lations. Alternatively, suppliers may engage in a consensual
strategy that entails attempting to implement partial sustain-
ability practices by negotiating with other actors (Nath et al.,
2020). In fact, when focal ﬁrms ‘outsource’ an action to their
supply chain, they are also engaging in decoupling, but this
issue has been less addressed in the literature.
Decoupling (in both forms) often occurs due to infor-
mation asymmetry between ﬁrms and their stakeholders
(Huq and Stevenson, 2018). Supply chain transparency may
reduce information asymmetry (Chen et al., 2022). In addi-
tion, blockchain solutions can ease the transaction costs of
implementing supply chain transparency (Saberi et al., 2018;
Treiblmaier, 2018). However, if resistance arises from sup-
ply chain actors (in the form of decoupling), blockchains may
fail to support supply chain transparency, resulting in the per-
sistence of modern slavery risks. Our intervention aims to
understand the extent to which blockchain can ease transaction
costs and enhance supply chain transparency (RQ1) and why
transparency to mitigate modern slavery is met with resistance
(RQ2).
3 Methodology
3.1 Intervention-Based Research
Recent OSCM research has urged scholars to eschew the
‘quintessential ivory tower syndrome’ (van Aken et al., 2016,
p. 1) and critically engage with the problems they study
(Touboulic et al., 2020). The former calls for effective-
ness over explanation, designing/testing over theorisation,
and pragmatic validity over theoretical validity (van Aken
et al., 2016). The latter invites engagement over observa-
tion, exploring researcher agency and embeddedness over
time to allow access to what is usually inaccessible, as well
as critical thinking, reﬂexivity, and contextualisation ‘by de-
privileging the criterion of generalisability’ (Touboulic et al.,
2020, p. 10).
IBR is a methodological umbrella that can help answer
those calls. IBR can aim to solve a socio-technical problem
in a given context while reﬂecting on the theoretical implica-
tions of such endeavours (Fendt and Kaminska-Labb ́e, 2011;
Iivari and V enable, 2009). Although historically marginalised,
IBR has received growing attention in recent years, resulting in
guidance for researchers (Chandrasekaran et al., 2020). Hav-
ing considered different guidelines for IBR, this study follows
Oliva (2019, p. 710), seeking to ‘explore the role that inter-
ventions (the ultimate manifestation of design science) can
play in testing and developing theory (the ultimate goal of an
academic endeavour)’. According to this framework, IBR is
structured into two modes of enquiry. Mode 1 is grounded
in action research and can test and expand theories (Check-
land, 1985), while mode 2 holds explanatory power grounded
in a process perspective, which can lead to theory development
(Langley, 1999). In other words, an intervention can explore
why the chosen theory cannot explain the phenomenon?(mode
1) and why the system behaves in an unexpected manner?
(mode 2).
Along our journey, unexpected results allowed us to explore
both modes of enquiry. In Appendix 2 (see: e-companion),t h e
iceberg analogy is used to show that mode 1 occurred at the
surface, that is, investigating blockchain and transaction costs
(RQ1), whereas mode 2 delved deeper into the bottom of the
iceberg, exploring the decoupling and misconduct that led to
interruption of the intervention (RQ2).

--- PAGE 6 ---
1062 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
Mode 1 reﬂects action research, which favours practical
utility and encourages change (i.e., a successful intervention)
while also yielding insights for theory elaboration. The action
researcher simultaneously takes action and creates knowl-
edge (Touboulic and Walker, 2015a). The practical utility of
this study was the signiﬁcant involvement in the development
of a mobile app to survey working conditions. Y et, midway
through the intervention, we recognised the misﬁt between
the adopted theory and our data, as resistance prevented the
blockchain from advancing. Unpacking audit and governance
costs enabled a granular revision of the total costs involved.
In the Section 4, we provide evidence of why the theory was
insufﬁcient to fully inform the intervention and how it failed
to anticipate speciﬁc developments. In Oliva’s (2019) terms,
we reﬂected on situation S to inform why theory T was not
capable of explaining the intervention.
After identifying the misﬁt, the research team turned its
attention to mode 2 or why the system behaved unexpect-
edly. The focus slowly shifted from action research to process
research, where theory elaboration is central and practical util-
ity is secondary. Although we were still involved in the project
report and relationship with other stakeholders, our attention
was increasingly oriented towards explaining why the new
situation S’ differed from the expected situation S*. In pro-
cess research, abductive reasoning is utilised to combine the
inside-out perspective of transaction costs with the outside-in
perspective of organisational misconduct (Greve et al., 2010)
and decoupling (Bromley and Powell, 2012). W e had entered
the project aware of the high unpredictability inherent to social
and technical dimensions of the intervention, but we were
quite surprised by the results.
3.2 Intervention Management and Data Collection
This study involves IBR focused on a particular industry in
which modern slavery risks are salient, the fashion indus-
try, and a particular country, Brazil, a representative of Latin
America and the Global South. The Brazilian fashion sup-
ply chain can be fully local, from farm to store, and yet
exhibits high levels of opacity. Fashion brands normally out-
source their production to tier-1 suppliers, who take charge
of buying fabric, cutting fabric, and ﬁnishing the product
while re-outsourcing the sewing to tier-2 sewing cells. While
the conditions at the fashion brands and tier-1 suppliers are
usually adequate (often above standards), workers in sub-
suppliers often endure precarious conditions. There is higher
turnover, and tier-2 suppliers eventually informally outsource
production they cannot manage to other sewing cells, thus cre-
ating informal/illegal tier-3 suppliers. The further away the
brands are from the consumer, the higher the risk of mod-
ern slavery. Multitiered outsourcing often portrays suppliers
in a dependent relationship with focal ﬁrms as intermittent
(non-dependent) to shield those focal ﬁrms from problems
when modern slavery is uncovered. Such blurred liability has
been overcome in some cases in which employee testimonials,
contracts, and invoices were used as evidence, but cases that
reach the court and lead to convictions represent only a tiny
fraction of the reality (Marques et al., 2021).
The goal of the intervention was to develop and pilot test
a mobile app that could invite workers to participate in a
monthly census of their working conditions. A key step of IBR
is researcher–client agreement. Unlike a non-participatory
approach, action research entails real interaction between the
researcher and the loci of the research (Iivari and V enable,
2009). This project was led by the research team after an
offer of funding from a prominent NGO in the industry,
here referred to as NGO-A, in December 2017. NGO-A was
founded by the owners of a major European fashion retail
chain that has been operating in Brazil since the 1980s. NGO-
A is dedicated to promoting transparency and systemic change
by funding projects that aim to change the fashion supply
chain towards sustainability and transparency. Engagement
with NGO-A automatically brought Brand-A into the project
to provide us with access to ﬁeldwork. The research team and
NGO-A identiﬁed and invited a blockchain start-up focused
on developing blockchain solutions oriented towards scalable
social change. Together, the research team and the start-up
constituted the project’s Core T eam.
The research project spanned from December 2017 to
March 2020. In December 2017, negotiations between
Researcher-A and the NGO-A, and the proposal was devel-
oped and signed in 2018. In January 2019, Researcher-B
joined the team, and the intervention lasted until March 2020,
when the expansion from the pilot to full implementation was
interrupted. Researcher-A was the project manager through-
out the full period. Researcher-A, Researcher-B, or both were
present at all data collection points, except after Researcher-C
joined the team in October 2019 and conducted the last round
of interviews.
The project plan consisted of involving two pilot supply
chains, each composed of one brand, two tier-1 suppliers, and
four tier-2 suppliers. In 2018, a second brand took part in the
research but dropped out in the ﬁrst month of project exe-
cution. Thus, the project kicked off in February 2019 with
only Supply Chain-A, while searching for a second brand (a
strict requirement of NGO-A). By June 2019, NGO-B and
Brand-B joined the project and provided some extra fund-
ing. NGO-B is a small-sized organisation but is recognised
for its work towards sustainability. Brand-B is a Brazilian
brand founded in the 1980s, with a much smaller scale and a
price ticket 7–9 times higher than that of Brand-A. Therefore,
the brands did not view themselves as competitors. Supply
Chain-B was formed by one focal ﬁrm, two tier-1 suppliers,
and three (instead of four) tier-2 suppliers. Non-disclosure
agreements (NDAs) were signed by all ﬁrms in both supply
chains.
Although both brands were leaders in sustainability and
transparency initiatives in the country, there were also valuable
differences between the two supply chains: different origins
(Brand-A is European and Brand-B is local), different sizes

--- PAGE 7 ---
Marques et al. 1063
(while Brand-A has one of the largest sales turnover in the
country, Brand-B has less than 10 % of Brand-A’s sales), dif-
ferent target consumers (Brand-A is a fast fashion chain, while
Brand-B is a premium brand), and different sourcing geog-
raphy (Brand-A’s local suppliers are concentrated in the São
Paulo region, while Brand-B’s suppliers are located in Rio de
Janeiro and Southern Brazil). These characteristics supported
purposeful sampling, thereby enhancing the external validity
of the research ﬁndings.
Appendix 3 ( see: e-companion ) presents a map of the
intervention and data collection instances. The left side of
the ﬁgure shows the supply network organised in three lay-
ers: the institutional layer with the government, the research
team, and the start-up; the pre-competitive layer, including the
Fashion Retail Association (henceforth ‘Association’, which
represents one-third of fashion sales in Brazil) and NGOs
that engage with multiple fashion brands; and ﬁnally, the sup-
ply chain layer, which represents workers, suppliers, and the
fashion brands. The ﬁgure presents both the 18 organisations
directly involved in the intervention and entities that were
not interviewed but mentioned repeatedly during the study,
such as the government. The right side of the ﬁgure quanti-
ﬁes the data collection: meetings, workshops, interviews, and
ﬁeldwork tours, including in loco recorded interviews.
The data collection was carried out using different meth-
ods that can be clustered in three groups, varying in frequency
and formality. The ﬁrst cluster refers to the core team (the
research team and the Start-up), which interacted through mul-
tiple e-mails, phone calls, conference calls, and meetings in
São Paulo. The second cluster covers the two brands and
the two NGOs, in which most of the interactions were con-
centrated on the ﬁve group workshops conducted over one
year, although phone calls and e-mails were also registered for
analysis. The third cluster comprises the supply chain actors
(tier-1 and tier-2 suppliers and their workers), where interac-
tions were restricted to the formally scheduled conference calls
and local visits and the two interviews with the Association
director.
Researcher-A, Researcher-C, NGO-B, and Brand-B were
based in Rio de Janeiro, whereas NGO-A, Brand-A, the Start-
up, the Association and Researcher-B were based in São Paulo
(note: hired to beneﬁt from proximity). There were 34 meet-
ings, 25 of which took place via conference calls and nine
in a rented facility in São Paulo. The same facility hosted
ﬁve group workshops that served as the key milestones of the
project (Appendix 4, e-companion).
Interaction with suppliers and their workers was carried out
through two rounds of ﬁeldwork visits spread from São Paulo
(Supply Chain-A) to the south of the country (Supply Chain-
B), totalling 20 ﬁeld visits. The ﬁeld trips included 15 semi-
structured and recorded interviews and multiple unrecorded
conversations. In addition, during the second tour, 60 work-
ers provided (unrecorded) feedback about the mobile app in
a series of meetings conducted by 2–3 Core T eam members
with groups of 5–7 workers in a round circle. In addition, two
interviews were conducted with the Association in São Paulo,
the ﬁrst midway during the project and the second during the
project closure. In the last stage of the project, Researcher-C
conducted three interviews with NGO-A’s manager and the
start-up team.
Appendix 5 provides a summary of the intervention time-
line (27 months), organised into four phases ranging from 3
to 12 months each. For each phase, the ﬁgure indicates the
core activities and the resulting data collection. The diagram
also indicates when each researcher joined the project. The
four phases not only depict the passage of time but also mark
key shifts in data analysis and theory elaboration. Appendix 6
offers the full list of interviewees (see: e-companion).
3.3 Data Analysis and Visualisation
The data analysis adhered to the recommendations of
Chandrasekaran et al. (2020). First, we developed a rich
description of our intervention and included appropriate data.
Second, the theory from which we departed was a plausible
starting point, that is, transaction costs. Third, the insight into
the need to recalibrate and develop theory further represented
sufﬁciently new and interesting knowledge.
W e employed a multitude of data visualisation techniques
to convey the message and portray both the process perspective
in its phases and the emerging concepts and their relation-
ships. In the Section 4, power quotes are complemented with
vignettes at the beginning and end of the section.
Vignettes have recently been utilised by some OSCM
researchers to study a women’s empowerment programme in
Ghana (McCarthy, 2017) and a slavery detection initiative in
Southeast Asia (Benstead et al., 2021). In both studies, the
authors advanced our understanding of supply chains from a
Global South perspective, using vignettes to visualise ﬁeld-
work reﬂexivity. In our study, the vignettes were written in the
ﬁrst person, drawing heavily on Researcher-A’s diary notes
and reﬂections, as reﬂexivity is central to action research
(Checkland, 1985). An action research project begins with an
action aimed at producing change and ends with a reﬂection on
the learnings. Therefore, ﬁrst-person vignettes can help embed
the reader in the data analysis and reﬂections.
While vignettes can help with immersion, data coding
supports theoretical propositions. To organise the data and
produce the analysis, we employed the temporal bracketing
strategy (Langley, 1999). Bracketing data in phases helped
describe the processes and mechanisms identiﬁed. For this,
‘evidence is (was) drawn together to examine how the con-
text affects these processes, and what the consequences of
these processes are on the future context and other rele-
vant variables of interest’ (Langley, 1999, p. 703). Organis-
ing the intervention in phases also helped to reveal mecha-
nisms that only surfaced once the intervention advanced from
inception to development and validation. T emporal bracket-
ing helped us move from messiness to a framework without
misrepresenting the inherent complexity of the phenomenon.

--- PAGE 8 ---
1064 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
Figure 1. Data structure.
According to Langley (1999), process studies should bal-
ance accuracy, generality, and simplicity. T emporal bracket-
ing offers conditions for excellent accuracy (as long as the
phases depict time shifts properly), with moderate general-
ity (single-case limitations), and moderate simplicity (given
the challenges in portraying a process view and a variable
view). Most importantly, the chosen strategy focused on
uncovering the driving mechanisms of the phenomenon under
study.
The data coding followed the two-cycle approach proposed
by Saldaña (2013). Within each temporal bracket, the ﬁrst
cycle was focused on reviewing the corpus and building a
foundation based on holistic coding, which is appropriate for
studies with a wide variety of data forms, such as transcripts
and ﬁeld notes. This type of coding is applicable when the
researcher already has an idea of what to look for. W e started
with transaction costs and then considered the reasons why
the intervention failed to mitigate such costs. The ﬁrst-order
concepts were grounded on power quotes extracted from the
recorded interviews and complemented by e-mails, ﬁeld notes,
and other data sources, which were key to supporting the tran-
sition from ﬁrst-order concepts to second-order themes. The
second coding cycle aimed to synthesise and conceptualise
the ﬁrst-order concepts, and we explored focused coding to
map the most frequent and signiﬁcant codes to develop salient
categories (Saldaña, 2013). Figure 1 presents the data struc-
ture based on ﬁrst-order and second-order stages, illustrating
the phases when concepts emerged as well as which RQ they
address more directly.
Additional data is presented in Appendix 7 – representa-
tive power quotes for ﬁrst-order concepts and Appendix 8 – a
sample of mobile app screenshots translated into English (see:
e-companion). While preserving conﬁdentiality, this evidence
offers further insights on the intervention.
3.4 Reﬂections on Research Quality
An interventionist must be conscious that interventions seek
to build on artiﬁcial systems that do not yet exist (i.e., ‘will
it work?’) and contrast with the natural sciences’ explana-
tion of existing natural systems (i.e., ‘is it valid or true?’)
(Oliva, 2019). An interventionist must also ensure the devel-
opment of a knowledge database that can support both prac-
tical and academic objectives (Nair et al., 2011), respecting
both the ‘researcher–client agreement’ and their professional
duty to contribute to academia. Finally, an interventionist
must state their instance, perspective, and possible limitations.
Researcher-A had extensive experience in the fashion indus-
try prior to academia, while Researcher-B and Researcher-C
had no prior experience in the industry. All researchers were
born and raised in Brazil, which shaped their worldview
but also helped in developing stronger relationships with the
participants.
T eam diversity enriched our discussions and provided
a source of triangulation, which also occurred while con-
fronting the different perspectives formed during the project
phases. Further, the study also included the triangulation of
methods and data to strengthen its reliability and internal

--- PAGE 9 ---
Marques et al. 1065
validity (Stake, 1995). Method triangulation involved the com-
bination of participant observation and in-depth interviews,
semi-structured interviews, and document analysis. For data
triangulation, interviews were compiled with the same inter-
viewee at different points in time, allowing observation of the
same phenomenon at different locations. Finally, a post-project
review was performed with key participants, who were asked
to verify the data analysis and correspondence to reality. This
step included three interviews conducted by Researcher-C and
a ﬁnal online meeting with NGO-A and Brand-A, all of which
were conducted in early 2020.
4 Findings
This section is structured according to the four phases
described in Appendix 5 to highlight temporal bracketing. In
addition, we frame the ﬁrst and last phases (1 and 4) around
ﬁrst-person vignettes to embed the reader in the data analysis
and reﬂections. Conversely, we have organised the intermedi-
ate phases (2 and 3) around raw quotes, with the intention of
providing direct access to raw data and nuances of speeches
across workers, suppliers, brands, NGOs, and association rep-
resentatives. In other words, we offer a journey that starts
and ends with the narrator’s voice (Researcher-A), with the
original voices presented between.
4.1 Phase 1. Project Setup (and Behind-the-Scenes
Access)
On December 22, 2017, Researcher-A received a compliment
from an old friend on social media. She had moved from Rio
de Janeiro to São Paulo a few years before, and they had lost
contact. She had become a manager at NGO-A, which funds
projects to improve supply chain transparency. A ﬁrst meet-
ing via Skype happened on January 31, 2018, and as a result,
Researcher-A joined a project to conduct an intervention to
test the extent to which blockchain could help improve sup-
ply chain transparency. After attending a couple of meetings
in May 2018, Researcher-A became the project manager and
received an initial grant to develop a 12-month project for 2019
(while travelling between Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo). In the
following months, the project team decided to focus solely on
working conditions and modern slavery and visited one tier-1
and one tier-2 supplier of Brand-A.
Vignette 1: The gut punch of reality behind the scenes.
July 17, 2018. Today, I visited a ‘pilot supply chain’, start-
ing with Brand-A’s headquarters, followed by a direct supplier
and a tier-2 supplier, in São Paulo, the fourth largest city in the
world with 22 million people. Brand-A and tier-1 suppliers are
both located in the same industrial cluster, one hour from my
hotel. The tier-2 supplier is based on a poor neighbourhood
almost two hours away from the industrial cluster. This is a
supply chain in a big city with long distances and too much
trafﬁc.
The visit to the tier-1 supplier is a pleasant surprise. Clearly
a top supplier, the owner (and general manager) takes me
around the facility and shows me the production control team,
their software, and the visual management tools that support
order management and quality control of 20 tier-2 suppliers
spread across São Paulo with whom they work. They also have
an audit team that works on four wheels running across these
tier-2 suppliers, like a milk-run system. They work hard to
achieve high quality and productivity and to offer a design that
matches with what their customers want – and they happen to
be one of the ﬁve largest fashion retail chains in the country.
The owner is also proud to state that he is a ‘recurrent volun-
teer’ for Brand-A’s improvement projects and is happy to help
with the 12-month project we are about to launch.
The visit to the tier-2 supplier is a ‘gut punch’. The supplier
is situated in a region of the city where the postal service does
not deliver, taxi drivers refuse to go, and Uber prohibits their
drivers from going due to violence in the neighbourhood. W e
get there by dropping from an Uber ride eight blocks away in
front of a barber shop. There, we meet the owner (let’s call
her Ana) to get a ride in her car to the facility. Ana works
diligently to make a living, and she explains that this barber
shop is where she can, for example, get something delivered by
Amazon when needed. W e enter this neighbourhood ‘excluded
from São Paulo map’ to see a sewing cell (tier-2 supplier) that
works for the tier-1 suppliers of some of the major fashion
brands in the country.
Ana had started small, and growth had come intrinsically
linked to family. Since sewing cells should not grow too much
(approx. 30 workers) to take advantage of the tax beneﬁts, Ana
has opened multiple sewing cells that work like production
cells. T wo of them are managed by her daughters, and the third
one is managed by her former husband turned business part-
ner. As the four sewing cells supply to tier-1 suppliers of major
fashion brands, this means not only monthly surveillance from
the tier-1 suppliers but also annual audits from each fashion
brand, and on top of that, the annual audit of the Brazilian Fash-
ion Retail Association Program. These audits overlap but also
have differences in their requirements; thus, compliance with
all demands multiplies the required efforts and investments.
Ana tells me that while Brand-A audit emphasises security
(i.e., electric installations, maintenance, ﬁre alarm), another
major fashion brand has stricter controls on ‘quarteirização’
(informal tier-3 sewing cells), and a third one is very much
focused on internal working conditions (i.e., lunch time, paid
leave, etc.). Ana complains about the increasing costs, contin-
uous priority shifts, and inclusions in the audit checklist. With
each visit comes a new surprise and a new requirement.
When asked about her relationship with her employees, she
described herself as a mother to them. Some need guidance on
their personal ﬁnances. Some are beaten by their husbands and
ask for early leave to prepare dinner on time. Ana changed her
tone when talking about her fear of having an illegal immigrant
and how to avoid that. Surprisingly, she also told the story of

--- PAGE 10 ---
1066 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
an auditor who had acted as a stalker, following her employ-
ees outside work to probe into the working conditions and
ask personal questions. Overall, we feel her struggle to cope
with increasing controls, low margins, and a lack of demand
stability from her customers.
I leave the visit and take the plane back to Rio de Janeiro,
lost in thought about the world we have created for our-
s e l v e s ...t h e f a s h i o n supply chain clearly involves a huge
imbalance between major fashion brands that reach around
one billion dollars in annual turnover, tier-1 suppliers that are
capable of achieving a turnover of a couple of million dollars in
annual revenue (working with approximately 300 employees
and managing 20 sewing cells), and ﬁnally, the tiny scale of
these tier-2 suppliers, with no more than 30 employees and
striving to survive another month. Within this unbalanced and
dispersed supply chain lies a horde of workers, mostly female,
and their voices are the only ones capable of uncovering the
truth about fashion working conditions.
If only we could let them speak using technology to stream-
line communication and offer the transparency of their voices
to the ﬁnal consumer, we could then ease the multiple audit
schemes and seamlessly produce trust.
By September 2018, we had presented a proposal to the
boards of both Brand-A and NGO-A and received a green light
for the project. By October, we had hired Researcher-B. By
December, we had to change our blockchain partner from a
multinational to a local start-up, and the second brand had can-
celled its participation before the project could start. Despite
these surprises, we had agreed to kick off with Brand-A alone
while searching for a second brand. By February 2019, the
project had a detailed governance structure and time sched-
ule, and its budget was approved. At this stage, expectations
were quite high. There was an overall excitement about the
blockchain’s potential to contribute to ﬁghting modern slav-
ery in the fashion industry. Concerns were concentrated on
ensuring that the solution would help in achieving standardis-
ation, reducing the transaction costs related to multiple (and
ineffective) local audits, and putting ourselves in the shoes
of the workers, that is, accounting for resistance, access to
technology, technology literacy, and so forth.
4.2 Phase 2. Design Thinking (And T ransaction Cost
T rade-Offs)
During this phase, we analysed the Association’s audit scheme
and decided that it should serve as the basis for the project’s
deﬁnition of modern slavery. This audit scheme classiﬁed
issues related to working conditions that were in line with the
literature, as described in Appendix 9 ( see: e-companion).
Although the Association’s political strength seemed to
result in standardisation, with its army of auditors covering
thousands of local audits every year across the country, there
was still a long way to go. The heterogeneity of audit schemes
was still high, as pictured in the previous phase. At this
stage, we inferred that the blockchain-led solution could be
the ﬁnal push towards standardisation, as technology favours
automation, and automation favours the adoption of common
standards. In addition, by producing a solution adherent to the
Association’s audit scheme, the chances of attracting other
fashion brands would be higher. By avoiding the speciﬁci-
ties of the current ﬁrms, the solution would then appeal to the
entire industry. W e also needed wider participation to cover
rising governance costs.
In six months, the project advanced through workshops and
the ﬁrst ﬁeldwork tour to Supply Chain-A in February 2019.
In March 2019, we held the ﬁrst group workshop. In April,
we signed a contract with NGO-B and Brand-B. In June, we
held a second group workshop with both. During this phase,
we adopted a design-thinking approach to capture the needs of
involved stakeholders, including the focal ﬁrms, tier-1 suppli-
ers, tier-2 suppliers, and workers, with the results summarised
in a social canvas.
W e had entered the ﬁeldwork highly concerned about pos-
sible resistance to a blockchain solution. Initially, the Core
T eam was mostly concerned with the workers’ resistance to
using a mobile app and responding to a monthly survey. There-
fore, signiﬁcant emphasis was placed on testing the workers’
familiarity with mobile phones, their perceptions of the mobile
app, their reaction to the survey’s writing style, and how clear
the questions were to them. There were many discussions on
how to probe on sensitive issues related to payment terms
and beneﬁts, work hours, work environment and fatigue, as
well as concerns about how to handle responses to open-ended
questions:
‘I think we need to be very responsible with the information
we are going to collect. It is not just about what we are going
to ask directly but about the risks if we leave an open question.
And if someone writes something like “help me” – anything
that puts us in the situation of needing to take someone out of
danger – are we prepared for that? Is there a way for the app
to capture this? And if we cannot handle this, how should we
proceed?’ (Director NGO-B)
In contrast to our concerns and those expressed by the
NGOs, during our ﬁeldwork, the workers expressed surprising
excitement with the project:
‘It is the ﬁrst time in 27 years in this profession that someone
asked me how I feel’. (W orker T2A22)
‘I felt embraced. This way, we will have a voice’. (W orker
T2A11)
Interestingly, while NGOs and fashion brands voiced con-
cerns about workers’ resistance, they saw no risks regarding
the suppliers. Their discourse indicated a healthy relationship
with their supply base, regardless of the fact that the suppli-
ers selected for the pilot project were among the best (thus, it

--- PAGE 11 ---
Marques et al. 1067
would be natural to expect them to gladly collaborate). Never-
theless, the ﬁeldwork revealed unease on the part of suppliers
regarding the lack of standardisation of the audit schemes.
Suppliers complained that they needed to work with multi-
ple fashion brands to ease demand instability and seasonality
while also having to comply with different audit schemes.
For example, each scheme could frame the same problem as
minor or major. As a result, one fashion brand might demand
immediate action, while another would shift its attention to a
different issue, accumulating requests for adaptation.
An example of this is immigrant work. Manager T1A1
was emphatic in telling us that his Paraguayan employee was
always the one to be requested for an interview during audits
from one fashion brand, while another fashion brand would
leave this aside and focus on capacity management to avoid
quarteirização (when tier-2 suppliers outsource to informal
tier-3 suppliers). If this were true, the project could reduce fric-
tion and audit burdens. Therefore, besides addressing the pains
of each stakeholder in the supply chain, we also aimed to pro-
duce a solution strongly grounded in the Association’s audit
scheme to increase homogeneity and ease supplier adoption.
By the end of this phase, there was a mix of excitement
with what the blockchain could provide and concerns over the
emerging governance costs. To what extent could something as
complex as blockchain technology be incorporated as an easy-
to-use solution for shopﬂoor workers? Clearly, the technology
angle of the socio-technical problem outweighed the tensions
related to governance and transparency that started to surface.
4.3 Phase 3. Pilot T esting (And Decoupling as
Resistance to T ransparency)
In the following six months, the start-up developed the beta
version of the mobile app survey. W e conducted another group
workshop with both focal ﬁrms to capture their feedback, and
in parallel we planned and executed the second ﬁeldwork tour,
with the goal of testing the mobile app survey with 300–400
workers across all suppliers participating in the project.
By the time we started scheduling the second ﬁeldwork,
the growing pressure of the audit schemes had affected our
project. The suppliers found it inconsistent that brands kept
pressuring them for lower prices and tighter deadlines while
increasing auditing demands. Audit schemes were voluntary
for brands but compulsory for suppliers once the brands they
supplied opted in. W e soon realised that our project was con-
sidered part of the growing audit workload. At this stage,
the consequences of the unfair purchasing practices that had
become the norm in the industry began to emerge.
From the suppliers’ perspective, the demand variation
imposed by the fashion brands (when postponing and can-
celling orders without prior notice) was a driver of working
condition instability, which could in turn increase the chances
of workers responding incorrectly to the survey. Suppliers
complained about fashion brands’ purchasing policies: can-
celling purchasing orders quite frequently and on short notice
while establishing harsh penalties for any delays: ‘ What can-
not happen is a late delivery. If you delay delivery, you pay a
1 % penalty fee. If the delay accounts for more than 5 % of the
total, the penalty fee increases to 5 % ’ (Manager T1A1).
Suppliers could not offer job security to workers with-
out demand stability. Moreover, they emphasised that such
unfair purchasing practices were spread across the industry.
Tier-1 suppliers felt squeezed between price pressure and
rigorous audit schemes. Once again, immigrant work was a
salient issue. Bolivians were described as more productive
than Brazilians but harder to tame into audit requirements:
‘Before fashion brands started (to care about) social respon-
sibility, audits, all those things, I had 26 sewing cells with
Bolivians. One day, I approached them to say the business
would change. Only ﬁve accepted and 21 have left’. [ ...] ‘ T h e
fact is that Bolivians sew like no one else, which impacted my
efﬁciency. While they can produce 10 difﬁcult pieces, Brazil-
ians can produce only one. However, their health standards do
not go according to the audit schemes’. (Manager T1A1)
Focal ﬁrm pressure on tier-1 suppliers often led to tier-1
pressure on tier-2 suppliers, cascading unfair purchasing prac-
tices to the weaker links in the supply chain. Even the tier-1
suppliers that avoided ‘ letting their sewing cells down ’ even-
tually had to cascade postponements/cancellations. It became
obvious that the lack of long-term contracts was, in fact, a
common practice. Suppliers felt that they were constantly ‘ in
the dark’, ‘holding the bull by the horn’ , and facing ﬁnancial
struggles: ‘Last year , I had no service for a full week. (...)B u t
then I still need to pay the workers to stay at home. And that
is the problem. There’s no way I can handle this. Last year we
stayed in the red [negative bank account] the full year because
of that one week’ (Owner T2A11).
With little demand instability, tier-2 suppliers bounced
from one customer to the other, and as a result, informal
contracts were almost the norm: ‘ Actually, nobody has a con-
tract. It is all under word-of-mouth assurance. If you provide
a good service, you keep supplying ’ (Owner T2A11). Fre-
quently, instability led to lay-offs: ‘ Last year I had almost
30 workers, but ﬁve of them I had to. . . [making a gesture
at her throat to indicate lay-off without saying the word]’
(Owner T2A12). Demand instability thus had devastating con-
sequences on workers’ job security. Although this was clearly
the reality of the industry, the focal ﬁrms seemed to refrain
from acknowledging it.
As our speciﬁc intervention progressed, frustration turned
into resistance to our own initiative. Suppliers resisted further
participation, as they saw each visit as an extra burden. In
fact, it became clear that the focal ﬁrms were not adequately
informing the suppliers about the intervention goals, dura-
tions, and beneﬁts. The focal ﬁrms simply assumed that the
suppliers would participate, ‘outsourcing’ the role of engag-
ing suppliers to researchers who had no power or incentives
to offer. It felt as if the focal ﬁrms considered both tier-1

--- PAGE 12 ---
1068 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
and tier-2 suppliers almost as their own property, while the
owners of the sewing cells obviously had a very different
view. Despite the workers’ receptivity, the suppliers them-
selves saw no beneﬁt and only an additional burden. W e were
supposed to survey 30 workers from each supplier during the
second ﬁeldwork tour, but we only visited half of the suppli-
ers, and we collected feedback from fewer than 10 workers
at each facility. As a result, instead of 360 responses, we
were left with 60 feedback points, most of them informal
and poorly registered due to time pressure to conclude the
visit.
In fact, although we aimed at developing a socio-technical
solution by improving quality/frequency while reducing trans-
action costs, we found that the very nature of purchasing
practices induced supplier instability and eventually could
elicit modern slavery. Most importantly, supplier resistance
sabotaged the project. Surprisingly, the focal ﬁrms seemed
to wish to enhance traceability without reconsidering their
own purchasing practices and their impact on supplier costs or
working conditions. Moreover, social and institutional dynam-
ics seemed to help ﬁrms rationalise their reasons for not
changing their purchasing practices, which were detrimental
to their supply base.
4.4 Phase 4. Project Interruption (And a Lesson
About the Status Quo)
Vignette 2: The gut punch of the status quo
January 14, 2020. Today is probably my last trip to São Paulo
funded by the project. T wo full years have passed since my
ﬁrst contact with NGO-A, approximately one year for the pro-
posal and another year for the intervention. After visiting a
candidate global retailer that could be interested in the project,
even though they raised multiple restrictions, and after my last
phone call with NGO-A and the start-up team at the hotel
room, I order a taxi while a feeling of frustration engulf me.
A project borne to transform the industry is about to die ...o r
at the very least, evolve into something that I did not dream of
when we started this journey . . .
It became clear that the intervention affected each stakeholder
in different ways, raising competing constraints that prevented
it from moving further from pilot to full implementation. The
truth is that governance costs to please all stakeholders take the
investment to a level where industry engagement is needed.
NGO-A has always told us that their initial investment was
‘seed money’ and that fashion brands’ buy-in was key to their
continued support. At the same time, fashion brands’ partic-
ipation came conditional on a focus on visibility (their own
control), thus delaying true transparency. As a result, NGO-
A’s interest was clearly fading away. NGO-B and Brand-B are
small players and have offered us all they had during the pilot
stage. They are eager to move ahead, as long as someone else
takes over the ﬁnancial burden. Last, but not least, the Associa-
tion has emphasised high heterogeneity across fashion brands.
Most are interested only in visibility, and even the front run-
ners seem to be waiting for the others to make the ﬁrst move.
This puts us in a vicious cycle, where everyone is waiting for
someone else to ‘open the dance ﬂoor’. As a result, there is no
dancing.
I ﬂy off from São Paulo to Rio de Janeiro not knowing this was
not only my last project trip but also my last trip to the fourth
largest city in the world for a long time (Covid-19 struck us
exactly two months after...)
During the last two months of the project, we had multi-
ple calls for combinatorial analysis with the start-up, NGOs,
brands, and the Association. W e ended up having more calls in
March 2020 (calls on 10 of 22 working days, sometimes more
than one per day) than at any other time in the project. Y et, no
concrete results came out of them. It became clear that fash-
ion brands were not yet suffering enough pressure to increase
transparency, as expressed by one brand manager: ‘ Have you
ever heard the phrase: Sweatshop is wrong unless the shoes
are cute?’ (Manager, Brand-A).
The project slowly entered fadeout mode. After March
2020, contacts with industry players revealed that our project
had inspired advancements in traceability but with no intent of
offering transparency to consumers and stakeholders. As this
research project concluded, true fashion supply chain trans-
parency is still non-existent in Brazil (or anywhere else, as far
as we are aware).
5 Discussion
5.1 Exposing the T rue Cost of Blockchain (RQ1)
W e begin the discussion by answering RQ1:To what extent can
blockchain reduce transaction costs while improving supply
chain transparency?
The fashion supply chain is dispersed and hard to control.
Focal ﬁrms often source from hundreds of tier-1 suppliers
that each employ dozens of sewing cells (tier-2 suppliers).
The further upstream one goes in the supply chain, the more
dispersed, and consequently, opaque, it becomes. Growing
pressures to improve control and transparency have led to audit
schemes that translate into transaction costs. A lack of trust
and redundance of controls (parallel audit schemes) further
add to transaction costs. Our intervention revealed that each
tier-2 sewing cell was usually visited monthly by its tier-1
suppliers and audited by each focal ﬁrm once per year. Fur-
ther, the national association also ran its own audit scheme,
again locally and once per year. As a result, one sewing cell
– that supplied to, for example, three focal ﬁrms – was likely
to be audited 16 times per year. However, the focal ﬁrms still
lacked control, while differences in audit schemes were over-
burdening suppliers. In response, tier-1 suppliers often acted

--- PAGE 13 ---
Marques et al. 1069
as midﬁelders, buffering problems from tier-2 sewing cells.
Audit failure was clearly occurring.
Previous research has emphasised focal ﬁrms’ need to
embrace coopetition (Benstead et al., 2018) and work through
ﬁrm associations to improve supply chain transparency (Vil-
lena, 2018). In our study, both coopetition and a strong asso-
ciation were in place, but the problem persisted. Given this
scenario, blockchains would seem to be a promising solution
to ease the problem (Kshetri, 2018; Saberi et al., 2018). Schol-
ars have emphasised the potential of blockchain solutions to
automate ﬂows while substituting for trust and adding trace-
ability in a frictionless manner. Thus, they are particularly
capable of reducing transaction costs. In the fashion supply
network, a blockchain solution could reduce audit costs, as
digitalisation would provide standardisation and increase the
frequency of control. However, our intervention exposed the
need for complex governance that produced unforeseen trans-
action costs.
Similar to studies on blockchain use to prevent counter-
feiting, we identiﬁed blockchain costs related to data security
(Danese et al., 2021) and trade-offs between implementation
and transaction costs (Pun et al., 2021). Such implementa-
tion costs took the form of ‘oracle costs’, that is, third-party
experts to oversee blockchain smart contracts on a regular
basis (Murray et al., 2021). Such governance costs would
thus counterbalance the reduction in local visits, at least in
the short to medium term. Therefore, while blockchain might
reduce costs related to local audits, unforeseen governance
costs/investments could overshadow the expected economy.
Blockchain governance would only become viable if imple-
mented on an industry scale, where cooperation could avoid
overburdening isolated focal ﬁrms. These conclusions led us
to our ﬁrst proposition:
P
ROPOSITION 1. Blockchain can save audit costs, but gover-
nance costs outweigh such savings without industry scale and
commitment.
Questioning why industry-level implementation did not
occur in a scenario with a strong association led us to shift
from mode 1 (RQ1) to mode 2 (RQ2) and explore ‘evidence
for the development of new theories not considered prior to
the intervention’ (Oliva, 2019, p. 712).
5.2 Unveiling Decoupling and Organisational
Misconduct (RQ2)
Beyond facing cost trade-offs, the intervention was hampered
by emerging resistance in the form of decoupling. Thus, we
now address RQ2: Why does decoupling emerge as a reaction
to supply chain transparency against modern slavery?
Supplier resistance did not emerge without reason. Suppli-
ers’ refusal to take part in the intervention was a consequence
of the focal ﬁrms’ unfair purchasing practices. Such practices
included, on the one hand, severe delay penalties for suppliers
and, on the other hand, order instability and cancellations,
which led to disruptions in production, urgent requests, and
very limited demand predictability (Chen et al., 2022; Meehan
and Pinnington, 2021; Muratore and Marques, 2021). Suppli-
ers thus had to live in a state of permanent tension, complying
with price pressures and absorbing demand instability while
accepting workloads and costs from parallel audit schemes.
Redundancy did not ensure control while overburdening sup-
pliers. As the focal ﬁrms simultaneously persisted in their
unfair purchasing practices and tightened audit schemes, the
suppliers felt doubly pressured. Such hypocrisy enabled the
focal ﬁrms to outsource the risk, responsibility, and costs of
modern slavery upstream to suppliers (Glover and Touboulic,
2020), which in turn led to supplier resistance in the form of
decoupling.
Supplier behaviour emerged in the form of means–end
decoupling. Suppliers found themselves with limited agency
to respond to focal ﬁrms’ impositions (Carmagnac et al.,
2022). Since suppliers were economically dependent on focal
ﬁrms, they responded to increasing audit pressures with
means–end decoupling in two ways. First, tier-1 suppliers
acted as buffers to tier-2 suppliers’ non-compliance. Tier-1
suppliers could not simply cancel tier-2 sewing cells that failed
to comply, or they would not meet the cost pressures. Instead,
tier-2 suppliers’ non-compliance was hidden or at least delayed
from exposure to the focal ﬁrms.
By outsourcing the burden of modern slavery mitigation
to suppliers (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021) while simultane-
ously sustaining price pressures, focal ﬁrms closed their eyes
to informal sub-contracting and work instability (Soundarara-
jan et al., 2021), ‘creating a dangerous cascade of unfair pay’
(Chen et al., 2022, p. 4306). Our second proposition indicates
the joint effects of unfair purchasing practices and growing
audit demands:
P
ROPOSITION 2. The combination of increasing audit costs
for suppliers and unfair purchasing practices of focal
ﬁrms leads to supplier resistance and buffering of non-
compliant practices which conﬁgures supplier decoupling
(means–end).
Unfair purchasing practices seemed to spread across the
industry. Prior research has suggested that coopetition is a
driver of transparency (Benstead et al., 2018; Villena, 2018).
Here, we observed another facet of coopetition: the legiti-
mation of unfair purchasing practices. To understand such
dynamics, we resorted to drivers of organisational misconduct.
Greve et al. (2010) presented a robust review of organisational
misconduct, stating that ‘misconduct is a behaviour that ﬂour-
ishes where legal, ethical, and social aspects have blurred lines
rather than clear limits’ (Greve et al., 2010, p. 36). Recently,
the OSCM scholarship has employed the lens of misconduct
to draw attention to practices that are widespread and persis-
tent, despite their negative consequences for society (Skilton
and Bernardes, 2022).

--- PAGE 14 ---
1070 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
The ﬁrst driver identiﬁed in this study was coded as ratio-
nal choice, which emerged when ﬁrms justiﬁed delaying costs
to prevent misconduct by downplaying their consequences
(Greve et al., 2010). In our case, focal ﬁrms blamed con-
sumers’ unwillingness to pay premiums for transparency as
a reason to delay action: ‘ Have you ever heard the phrase:
Sweatshop is wrong unless the shoes are cute? ’ Despite their
share of responsibility, consumers were not heard, consulted,
or engaged with (Carmagnac et al., 2022). Portraying them as
greedy and unaware helped justify focal ﬁrms’ inaction rather
than taking ownership of the responsibility to inform con-
sumers (Chen et al., 2022). Moreover, focal ﬁrms used alleged
consumer unwillingness to pay and volatility as arguments for
passing price pressure and demand instability downstream in
their supply chains.
The second identiﬁed driver reﬂected a strain (tension),
which was observed in the framing of goals as unachiev-
able (Greve et al., 2010; Wijen, 2014). In our case, focal
ﬁrms diverted attention from their own practices and blamed
supplier behaviour. Tier-1 suppliers were framed as the ones
responsible for negotiating with tier-2 suppliers, as if price
pressures from the brands to tier-1 suppliers would not trans-
late to such pressures to tier-2 suppliers. In addition, tier-2
suppliers were blamed for accepting demand beyond their
capacity, thereby fragilising the supply chain. The focal ﬁrms
reasoned that none of these issues were linked to their own
unfair purchasing practices. If the cause was external to the
focal ﬁrm, supply chain transparency could be framed as
unachievable (Doorey, 2011).
The third identiﬁed driver reﬂected a victimisation culture.
Culture can permit misconduct by socially weighing victims’
claims or diverting attention from the original victim (Greve
et al., 2010). This notion echoes climate change deniers, for
example, when they downplay the impact of carbon emis-
sions on society to justify corporate inaction. Modern slavery
research has suggested that the efﬁciency paradigm supports
focal ﬁrm victimisation (Caruana et al., 2020). If focal ﬁrms
could see value in ethical behaviour and transparency, some
would advance towards supply chain transparency (Stevenson
and Cole, 2018). However, if they jointly shared a common
culture of denial, homogeneity would lead to inaction at the
industry level.
Together, the drivers of rational choice, goal strain, and
victimisation culture supported a discourse to absolve unfair
purchasing practices by blaming the others: consumers, sup-
pliers, and ﬁerce competition. Note that, on the one hand, the
competitive side of coopetition led to price pressures, and, on
the other hand, the cooperative side of coopetition diffused
misconduct. The highly ambiguous nature of modern slav-
ery, linked to the lack of transparency, further contributed to
inaction (Stevenson, 2022). Suppliers were thus left with no
alternatives. While OSCM research has often considered how
focal ﬁrms can prevent opportunism by suppliers (Asif, 2020;
Nath et al., 2020; Villena, 2018; Villena and Gioia, 2018), few
studies have investigated focal ﬁrm misconduct. Our ﬁndings
led to a proposition that captures these dynamics:
P
ROPOSITION 3. The victimisation of focal ﬁrms and diver-
sion of attention to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and sup-
pliers (‘not behaving as expected’) conﬁgure the drivers of
organisational misconduct that are used to justify focal ﬁrms’
unfair purchasing practices.
Besides supporting unfair purchasing practices, the identi-
ﬁed drivers of organisational misconduct also led to focal ﬁrm
decoupling. While supplier decoupling has been addressed
recently (Nath et al., 2020), factors related to focal ﬁrm
behaviour have been overlooked. In particular, focal ﬁrm
power in the supply chain should lead to higher responsibility,
not the reverse (Asif, 2020). Such a power imbalance became
clear in the fashion supply chain, cascading from the brand to
tier-1 suppliers, then from tier-1 to tier-2 suppliers, and ﬁnally
to workers at the end of the supply chain, who are exposed to
modern slavery conditions.
Our study revealed that focal ﬁrm decoupling took a differ-
ent form than supplier decoupling. While supplier behaviour
was characterised by means–end decoupling, decoupling at the
focal ﬁrms took the shape of a policy–practice gap. The pol-
icy–practice decoupling reﬂected symbolic adoption. While a
transparency policy was highlighted in discourse and corpo-
rate reporting (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021), weak imple-
mentation led to little or no change in daily routines (Bromley
and Powell, 2012).
When the mobile app was developed to allow full sup-
ply chain transparency, the focal ﬁrms’ responses shifted to
a stepwise approach. This meant improving the visibility of
focal ﬁrms to their supply chains without providing trans-
parency for stakeholders, which has been deﬁned as a ‘secrecy
strategy’ (Marshall et al., 2016). From a policy perspective,
transparency was a core value for many focal ﬁrms in the asso-
ciation. However, their practices involved visibility and control
without transparency. As such, the failure to comply resulted
in harsh consequences for the suppliers but no consequences
for the focal ﬁrms. In other words, without supply chain trans-
parency, blockchain could be used to control suppliers, but no
link between supplier non-compliance and brands would be
made public. Non-compliant suppliers could be excluded from
the association list, but no speciﬁc links between each brand
and these non-complaint suppliers would be made. This served
as a ‘smokescreen’ (Doorey, 2011). Without a clear timeline
on how and when to progress from visibility to transparency,
visibility became an end in its own right rather than a means
to transparency (Asif, 2020).
By transferring the responsibility for modern slavery to
supplier practices (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021) and con-
sumer choices (Chen et al., 2022), focal ﬁrms could divert
attention to weaker links in the supply chain – a hypocriti-
cal practice that decouples discourse from practice (Glover
and Touboulic, 2020). In our fourth proposition, we elabo-
rate on how focal ﬁrms’ response to transparency pressures
included buffering their supply chain practices and protecting
them from exposure/outside inspection (Bromley and Powell,
2012):

--- PAGE 15 ---
Marques et al. 1071
Figure 2. Conceptual framework.
PROPOSITION 4. The victimisation of focal ﬁrms and diver-
sion of attention to consumers (‘unwilling to pay’) and sup-
pliers (‘not behaving as expected’) conﬁgure the drivers of
organisational misconduct that support focal ﬁrm decoupling
(policy–practice).
Although the mechanisms depicted in Propositions 1–4 do
not ensure modern slavery, they eroded the assurance that
modern slavery could be under control. Complexity related to
the fact that in isolation, each brand was not to blame. Rather,
industry-wide practices produced price pressure and demand
instability, which hurt the supply chain, pushing suppliers to
engage with informality (Soundararajan et al., 2021) and thus
providing fertile soil for modern slavery. However, blurred lia-
bility and focal ﬁrm practices that eroded margins, intensiﬁed
pressure on suppliers, and could lead to working condition
infringements were less likely to be systemically challenged.
As a result, focal ﬁrms did not engage in reﬂections regard-
ing their own commercial practices (Meehan and Pinnington,
2021).
Modern slavery instances tend to spread in the supply
chain, worsening during crises, such as COVID-19 (Cole
and Shirgholami, 2021), but advancing as a gradual, con-
tinuous threat (Stevenson, 2022). In this scenario, supply
chain transparency is promised and implied but never truly
conﬁrmed (Meehan and Pinnington, 2021). Our ﬁnal propo-
sition summarises decoupling’s impact on the risk of modern
slavery:
P
ROPOSITION 5. Supplier decoupling (means–ends) and
focal ﬁrm decoupling (policy–practice) increase the risk of
modern slavery.
In Figure 2, we return to the iceberg analogy, with the ﬁve
propositions and a conceptual framework.
6 Conclusion
Thus far, little research has focused on the justiﬁcations that
focal ﬁrms provide for not investing in supply chain trans-
parency. The OSCM scholarship will continue to provide an
‘unhelpful caricature’ of the problem without an in-depth anal-
ysis of ‘the organisational and supply chain dynamics that give
rise to it; and the business actors and models through which
it ﬂourishes’ (Caruana et al., 2020, p. 252). Our study sheds
light on the dynamics that allow organisational misconduct
and decoupling to persist, particularly in the Global South
context (Huq and Stevenson, 2018; Nath et al., 2020). In this
way, we offer a methodological contribution to our ﬁeld by
conducting IBR.
Only extreme cases of opportunism become public. By
the same token, most occurrences of misconduct pass unno-
ticed. In both cases, most incidents are opaque, as (a) per-
petrators try to hide them due to social desirability, and (b)
potential informants and whistle-blowers often see the costs
as higher than the beneﬁts of denouncing. However, there
is a key difference between the two: While opportunism
looks at wrongdoing due to self-interest, making it an inside-
out perspective (Lumineau and Oliveira, 2020), organisa-
tional misconduct looks at wrongdoing as socially constructed,
therefore making it an outside-in perspective (Greve et al.,
2010).
When misconduct is a widespread practice, addressing it
requires systemic interventions. Focal ﬁrms are the supply
chain leader, engaging in explicit coordination and hold-
ing the most power. Thus, as much as they can support
small suppliers, they can also impose on them disadvan-
tages if misconduct is accepted (Glover and Touboulic, 2020).
Although our ﬁeld has devoted increasing attention to the
role of social dynamics (Kim et al., 2011; Marques et al.,
2020), there is scant research on how misconduct becomes

--- PAGE 16 ---
1072 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
widespread in supply chains (Skilton and Bernardes, 2022).
W e address this based on theory elaboration, and we offer ﬁve
propositions.
In our ﬁrst proposition, we argue for the limitations of
blockchain solutions in reducing transaction costs. W e show
that a lack of trust leads to governance costs that outweigh the
potential for reducing audit costs (Murray et al., 2021). High
governance costs call for coopetition. Our conclusions clash
with those of OSCM research that has focused on the beneﬁts
of blockchain (Saberi et al., 2018; Treiblmaier, 2018). Such
ﬁndings have strong implications for practice. Blockchain
projects must incorporate governance and implementation
costs, which can only be accomplished with industry-level
adoption.
W e then provide four propositions that unpack the underly-
ing reasons why transaction costs alone cannot explain barriers
to supply chain transparency and why the project was hijacked
by drivers of organisational misconduct deeply rooted in the
sector’s culture that allowed decoupling to emerge, perpetuat-
ing the risk of modern slavery. The ﬁndings inform practice
by showing that decoupling should be addressed within focal
ﬁrms’ realms as much as along the supply base. However,
we offer guidance not only to practice but also to policy. If
industry-level misconduct is not addressed by policy, and mal-
practice is widespread, no focal ﬁrm can be easily blamed in
isolation.
Our study resonates with previous research on whistle-
blowing. Whistle-blowers have often been framed as ille-
gitimate and have suffered retaliation. Moreover, retalia-
tion has been stronger when whistle-blowers have disclosed
information about systemic and deep-seated wrongdoing
as opposed to isolated incidents (Kenny, 2018). Our work
reveals how organisational misconduct blocks an interven-
tion that would allow workers’ voices to be heard and expose
well-established detrimental practices towards suppliers and
workers.
Could blockchain technology offer a complement to
whistle-blowing strategies as a crowd-sourced worker voice?
According to Reinecke and Donaghey (2020, p. 28), ‘Ideally,
worker-driven supply chain governance will involve worker
v o i c e a c r o s s d i f f e r e n t l e v e l s ( ...) a n d g i v i n g t h e m a n a c t i v e
role in monitoring and enforcement ensures accountability
towards the intended beneﬁciaries of decent work initiatives
– the workers themselves’. W e show that any socio-technical
solution must build a common ground to pacify different
stakeholders with competing demands (e.g., labour, capital,
consumers) if we are to advance to a more transparent and
fairer society. Future research should dig further into how tech-
nology can complement traditional whistle-blowing strategies
to support workers’ voices in supply chains (Stevenson, 2022).
Y et, technology can only serve fairness and justice if we trig-
ger a shift away from labour as risk towards labour as care
and stewardship (Caruana et al., 2020). Without the social
dimension, the technical dimension is powerless (Mithas et al.,
2022).
W e advance OSCM research on modern slavery. Despite
the ﬁt between OSCM and modern slavery research, the ﬂow
of people in supply chains has been overlooked compared to
the ﬂow of goods. Caruana et al. (2020) called for horizon-
tal (vs. vertical), multitier (vs. singular), and bottom-up (vs.
top-down) conceptions of supply chain relations. Our work
also dives deeply into such relations. W e show convergence
among focal ﬁrms in building a discourse that shifts liability
to both ends of the supply chain: ‘consumers are unwilling to
pay’ and ‘suppliers are hard to trace’. The endorsement of such
discourse, however, is not explicit.
Recent research has discussed the failure of interventions
to address modern slavery due to the stickiness of a dominant
logic. Hasle and V ang (2021) called for unpacking how this
dominant logic obstructs decent work interventions. In our
study, we unpack the mechanisms through which the follow-
ing problem can be answered: ‘While buyers typically blame
suppliers for decoupling, the problem is in reality related to
the fact that both buyers and suppliers pursue strategies based
on cost-cutting’ (Hasle and V ang, 2021, p. 59). W e expose
a dominant logic deeply rooted in organisational misconduct
that is widespread among focal ﬁrms. Focal ﬁrms associate
instances of modern slavery with supplier misconduct or acci-
dents rather than reﬂecting on their own practices. They also
tend to blame the complexity and costs associated with trans-
parency when explaining their supply chain opacity (Chen
et al., 2022). Thus, a victimisation discourse serves as the
‘alibi’ they need. Future research could look at the condi-
tions that can break this dominant logic and reshape ﬁrm
behaviour.
Our work reveals the underlying social conditions of mod-
ern slavery in the Global South supply chains. The reconceptu-
alisation of the Global South under a postcolonial framework
explores the notions of mimicry and hybridity (Özkazanç–
Pan, 2008). Mimicry emerges as the attempt of the coloniser
to make the colonised copy their culture. Furthermore, to
dominate lands and people by way of mimicry, the coloniser
needs the colonised nation to be articulated as a homoge-
neous space. Meanwhile, according to the notion of hybridity,
(supply chain) practices emerge through encounters rather
than through static, nation-based cultural differences. Future
research could utilise a postcolonial lens in considering ways
of reframing capital–work relations and supply chain power
dynamics that sustain organisational misconduct and hinder
workers’ voices.
Predominantly, OSCM scholarship seems to echo focal
ﬁrms’ voices and reasoning, positioning misconduct at the feet
of suppliers rather than the other way around. If we do not truly
change and ensure that suppliers and workers are heard, the
behind-the-scenes truth in fashion will never meet the eyes of
society.
Declaration of Conﬂicting Interests
The authors declared no potential conﬂicts of interest with respect to
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

--- PAGE 17 ---
Marques et al. 1073
Funding
The author(s) disclosed receipt of the following ﬁnancial sup-
port for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this arti-
cle: The authors acknowledge the support of Laudes Foundation
(formerly C&A Foundation - ref nº GR-068791) and Instituto-e (ref
Blockchain) during research design and data collection.
Supplemental Material
Supplemental material for this article is available online (doi:
10.1177/10591478231224928).
Notes
1. T ex Brasil (2020) ‘Dados da ind ́ustria têxtil e de confecção ref-
erentes à 2019’, available at: http://texbrasil.com.br/pt/imprensa/
dados-da-industria-textil-e-de-confeccao-em-2015/ (accessed 25
Nov 2020).
2. Among other defeats, in 2019 the Federal Government extin-
guished the Ministry of Labour and transferred its responsibili-
ties to the Minister of Economy. As a counterbalance, in 2020,
the Supreme Court considered the Dirty List constitutional. The
dispute continues.
3. A vailable at: https://g1.globo.com/sp/sao-paulo/noticia/2022/01/
29/numero-de-trabalhadores-resgatados-de-situacoes-de-trabal-
ho-analogo-a-escravidao-na-cidade-de-sp-aumenta-quase-200-
percent-em-2021-diz-mpt.ghtml and https://www.cnnbrasil.com.
br/nacional/pandemia-impoe-retrocesso-ao-enfrentamento-do-
traﬁco-de-pessoas-no-brasil/ (both accessed 25 Feb 2022).
4. W e avoid the pejorative term sweatshop and opt for the term
‘sewing cell’. W e do not use the term ‘workshop’ also often
applied in the fashion industry for tier-2 suppliers, because we
make many references to the ﬁve workshops conducted as full day
activities during the project.
References
Agrawal TK, Kumar V, Pal R, et al. (2021) Blockchain-based frame-
work for supply chain traceability: A case example of textile and
clothing industry. Computers and Industrial Engineering 154:
107130.
Aguinis H, Villamor I, Lazzarini SG, et al. (2020) Conducting man-
agement research in Latin America: Why and what’s in it for you?
Journal of Management 46(5): 615–636.
Asif M (2020) Supplier socioenvironmental compliance: A survey
of the antecedents of standards decoupling. Journal of Cleaner
Production 246: 1–18.
Barratt M and Choi TY (2007) Mandated RFID and institutional
responses: Cases of decentralized business units. Production and
Operations Management 16(5): 569–585.
Benstead A V, Hendry LC and Stevenson M (2018) Horizontal col-
laboration in response to modern slavery legislation: An action
research project. International Journal of Operations & Produc-
tion Management 38(12): 2286–2312.
Benstead A V, Hendry LC and Stevenson M (2021) Detecting and
remediating modern slavery in supply chains: A targeted audit
approach. Production Planning & Control 32(13): 1136–1157.
Benstead A V, Mwesiumo D, Moradlou H, et al. (2022) Entering the
world behind the clothes that we wear: Practical applications of
blockchain technology. Production Planning & Control, Ahead-
of-Print: 1–18.
Bromley P and Powell WW (2012) From smoke and mirrors to walk-
ing the talk: Decoupling in the contemporary world. The Academy
of Management Annals 6(1): 483–530.
Busse C, Schleper MC, Niu M, et al. (2016) Supplier development
for sustainability: Contextual barriers in global supply chains.
International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Man-
agement 46(5): 442–468.
Carmagnac L, Touboulic A and Carbone V (2022) A wolf in
sheep’s clothing: The ambiguous role of multistakeholder meta-
organisations in sustainable supply chains. M@n@Gement 25(4):
45–63.
Caruana R, Crane A, Gold S, et al. (2020) Modern slavery in business:
The sad and sorry state of a non-ﬁeld. Business & Society 60(2):
251–287.
Chandrasekaran A, Treville S and Browning T (2020) Editorial:
Intervention-based research (IBR) - what, where, and how to use
it in operations management. Journal of Operations Management
66(4): 370–378.
Checkland P (1985) From optimizing to learning: A development of
systems thinking for the 1990s. The Journal of the Operational
Research Society 36(9): 757–767.
Chen L, Lee HL and Tang CS (2022) Supply chain fairness. Produc-
tion and Operations Management 31(12): 4304–4318.
Christ KL, Burritt RL and Schaltegger S (2020) Accounting for
work conditions from modern slavery to decent work.Accounting,
Auditing & Accountability Journal 33(7): 1481–1504.
Cole R and Shirgholami Z (2021) The outlook for modern slavery
in the apparel sector in a post-lockdown economy. Supply Chain
Management: An International Journal 27(4): 526–537.
Danese P, Mocellin R and Romano P (2021) Designing blockchain
systems to prevent counterfeiting in wine supply chains: A
multiple-case study. International Journal of Operations & Pro-
duction Management 41(13): 1–33.
Doorey DJ (2011) The transparent supply chain: From resistance
to implementation at Nike and Levi-Strauss. Journal of Business
Ethics 103(4): 587–603.
Efanov D and Roschin P (2018) The all-pervasiveness of the
blockchain technology. Procedia Computer Science 123:
116–121.
Emery GW and Marques MA (2011) The effect of transaction costs,
payment terms and power on the level of raw materials inventories.
Journal of Operations Management 29(3): 236–249.
Fendt J and Kaminska-Labb ́e R (2011) Relevance and creativity
through design-driven action research: Introducing pragmatic
adequacy. European Management Journal 29(3): 217–233.
Fudge J and McCann D (2015) Unacceptable forms of work:
A global and comparative study . Retrieved from Geneva:
https://www.ilo.org/global/publications/WCMS_436165/lang–
en/index.htm.
Glover J and Touboulic A (2020) Tales from the countryside: Unpack-
ing “passing the environmental buck” as hypocritical practice in
the food supply chain. Journal of Business Research 121: 33–46.
Gold S, Hahn R and Seuring S (2013) Sustainable supply chain man-
agement in “Base of the Pyramid” food projects—A path to triple
bottom line approaches for multinationals?International Business
Review 22(5): 784–799.
Greve HR, Palmer D and Pozner JE (2010) Organizations gone
wild: The causes, processes, and consequences of organizational
misconduct. The Academy of Management Annals 4(1): 53–
107.

--- PAGE 18 ---
1074 Production and Operations Management 34(5)
Hasle P and V ang AJ (2021) Designing better interventions: Insights
from research on decent work. Journal of Supply Chain Manage-
ment 57(2): 58–70.
Huq F A and Stevenson M (2018) Implementing socially sustainable
practices in challenging institutional contexts: Building theory
from seven developing country supplier cases.Journal of Business
Ethics 161(2): 415–442.
Iivari J and V enable JR (2009) Action research and design sci-
ence research - Seemingly similar but decisively dissimilar .Paper
presented at the European Conference on Information Systems
(ECIS).
International Labor Organization, I. (2018) F orced labour .
Retrieved from Geneva: https://www.ilo.org/global/about-the-
ilo/newsroom/news/WCMS_617076/lang–en/index.htm.
International Labor Organization, I., Walk Free, W ., & Inter-
national Organization for Migration, I (2022) Global Esti-
mates of Modern Slavery: F orced Labour and F orced Mar-
riage. Retrieved from Geneva: https://www.ilo.org/global/topics/
forced-labour/publications/WCMS_854733/lang–en/index.htm.
Kahya E (2007) The effects of job characteristics and working con-
ditions on job performance. International Journal of Industrial
Ergonomics 37(6): 515–523.
Kenny K (2018) Censored: Whistleblowers and impossible speech.
Human Relations 71(8): 1025–1048.
Kim S, Wagner SM and Colicchia C (2019) The impact of supplier
sustainability risk on shareholder value. Journal of Supply Chain
Management 55(1): 71–87.
Kim Y, Choi TY, Y an T, et al. (2011) Structural investigation of
supply networks: A social network analysis approach. Journal of
Operations Management 29(3): 194–211.
Kshetri N (2018) 1 Blockchain’s roles in meeting key supply chain
management objectives. International Journal of Information
Management 39: 80–89.
Langley A (1999) Strategies for theorizing from process data.
Academy of Management Review 24(4): 691–710.
Lumineau F and Oliveira N (2020) Reinvigorating the study of oppor-
tunism in supply chain management. Journal of Supply Chain
Management 56(1): 73–87.
Marques L (2019) Sustainable supply network management: A sys-
tematic literature review from a knowledge perspective. Inter-
national Journal of Productivity and Performance Management
68(6): 1164–1190.
Marques L, Erthal A, Schott CSdCM, et al. (2021) Inhospitable
accessibility and blurred liability: Institutional voids in an emerg-
ing economy preventing supply network transparency. Brazilian
Administration Review 18(2): 1–28.
Marques L, Y an T and Matthews L (2020) Knowledge diffusion in
a global supply network: A network of practice view. Journal of
Supply Chain Management 56(1): 33–53.
Marshall D, McCarthy L, McGrath P, et al. (2016) What’s your strat-
egy for supply chain disclosure? MIT Sloan Management Review
57(2): 37–45.
McCarthy L (2017) Empowering women through corporate social
responsibility: A feminist Foucauldian critique. Business Ethics
Quarterly 27(4): 603–631.
McIvor R (2009) How the transaction cost and resource-based theo-
ries of the ﬁrm inform outsourcing evaluation. Journal of Opera-
tions Management 27(1): 45–63.
Meehan J and Pinnington BD (2021) Modern slavery in supply
chains: Insights through strategic ambiguity. International Jour-
nal of Operations & Production Management 41(2): 77–101.
Meinlschmidt J, Schleper MC and Foerstl K (2018) Tackling the
sustainability iceberg: A transaction cost economics approach to
lower tier sustainability management. International Journal of
Operations & Production Management 38(10): 1888–1914.
Meyer JW and Rowan B (1977) Institutionalized organization: For-
mal structure as myth and ceremony. American Journal of Sociol-
ogy
83(2): 340–363.
Mithas S, Chen ZL, Saldanha TJV, et al. (2022) How will artiﬁcial
intelligence and Industry 4.0 emerging technologies transform
operations management? Production and Operations Manage-
ment 31(12): 4475–4487.
Muratore AP and Marques L (2021) Fashion supply chain trans-
parency: Do as I say not as I do. International Journal of
Productivity and Performance Management 71(6): 2459–2478.
Murray A, Kuban S, Josefy M, et al. (2021) Contracting in the
smart era: The implications of blockchain and decentralized
autonomous organizations for contracting and corporate gover-
nance. Academy of Management Perspectives 35(4): 622–641.
Nair A, Malhotra MK and Ahire SL (2011) Toward a theory of man-
aging context in Six Sigma process-improvement projects: An
action research investigation. Journal of Operations Management
29(5): 529–548.
Nath SD, Eweje G and Sajjad A (2020) The hidden side of sub-
supplier ﬁrms’ sustainability – an empirical analysis. Interna-
tional Journal of Operations & Production Management 40(12):
1771–1799.
Oliva R (2019) Intervention as a research strategy. Journal of Oper-
ations Management 65(7): 710–724.
Özkazanç-Pan B (2008) International management research meets
“the rest of the world”. Academy of Management Review 33(4):
964–974.
Parmigiani A and Rivera-Santos M (2015) Sourcing for the base of
the pyramid: Constructing supply chains to address voids in sub-
sistence markets. Journal of Operations Management 33–34(5):
60–70.
Perry P, W ood S and Fernie J (2014) Corporate social responsibility
in garment sourcing networks: Factory management perspectives
on ethical trade in Sri Lanka. Journal of Business Ethics 130(3):
737–752.
Pournader M, Shi Y, Seuring S, et al. (2019) Blockchain applications
in supply chains, transport and logistics: A systematic review of
the literature. International Journal of Production Research58(7):
2063–2081.
Pun H, Swaminathan JM and Hou P (2021) Blockchain adoption
for combating deceptive counterfeits. Production and Operations
Management 30(4): 864–882.
Queiroz MM, T elles R and Bonilla SH (2019) Blockchain and supply
chain management integration: A systematic review of the litera-
ture. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal 25(2):
241–254.
Reinecke J and Donaghey J (2020) Towards worker-driven supply
chain governance: Developing decent work through democratic
worker participation. Journal of Supply Chain Management57(2):
14–28.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Marques et al. 1075
Saberi S, Kouhizadeh M, Sarkis J, et al. (2018) Blockchain tech-
nology and its relationships to sustainable supply chain manage-
ment. International Journal of Production Research 57(7): 2117–
2135.
Saldaña J (2013) The coding manual for qualitative researchers ,
Second ed. London: Sage.
Shermin V (2017) Disrupting governance with blockchains and smart
contracts. Strategic Change 26(5): 499–509.
Silvestre BS (2015) Sustainable supply chain management in emerg-
ing economies: Environmental turbulence, institutional voids and
sustainability trajectories. International Journal of Production
Economics 167: 156–169.
Skilton PF and Bernardes E (2022) Normal misconduct in the pre-
scription opioid supply chain. Journal of Supply Chain Manage-
ment 58(4): 6–29.
Sodhi MS, Seyedghorban Z, Tahernejad H, et al. (2022) Why emerg-
ing supply chain technologies initially disappoint: Blockchain,
IoT , and AI. Production and Operations Management 31(6):
2517–2537.
Soundararajan V, Wilhelm MM and Crane A (2021) Humanizing
working conditions in supply chains: Building a path to decent
work. Journal of Supply Chain Management 57(2): 3–13.
Stake RE (1995) The Art of Case Study Research . London: Sage
Publications.
Stevenson M (2022) Hidden in plain sight: The bystander effect and
the mobilisation of modern slavery whistleblowing. Supply Chain
Management: An International Journal 27(1): 128–139.
Stevenson M and Cole R (2018) Modern slavery in supply chains:
A secondary data analysis of detection, remediation and disclo-
sure. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal 12(3):
81–99.
Sunar N and Swaminathan JM (2022) Socially relevant and inclusive
operations management. Production and Operations Management
31(12): 4379–4392.
Tachizawa EM and W ong CY (2015) The performance of green
supply chain management governance mechanisms: A supply
network and complexity perspective. Journal of Supply Chain
Management 51(3): 18–32.
Tapscott D and Tapscott A (2016) Blockchain Revolution.N e wY o r k :
Penguin.
Touboulic A, McCarthy L and Matthews L (2020) Re-imagining sup-
ply chain challenges through critical engaged research. Journal of
Supply Chain Management 56(2): 36–51.
Touboulic A and Walker H (2015a) A relational, transformative and
engaged approach to sustainable supply chain management: The
potential of action research. Human Relations 69(2): 301–343.
Touboulic A and Walker H (2015b) Theories in sustainable sup-
ply chain management: A structured literature review. Interna-
tional Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management
45(1/2): 16–42.
Treiblmaier H (2018) The impact of the blockchain on the sup-
ply chain: A theory-based research framework and a call for
action. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal
23(6): 545–559.
van Aken J, Chandrasekaran A and Halman J (2016) Conducting
and publishing design science research. Journal of Operations
Management 47-48(1): 1–8.
Villena VH (2018) The missing link? The strategic role of procure-
ment in building sustainable supply networks. Production and
Operations Management 28(5): 1149–1172.
Villena VH and Gioia DA (2018) On the riskiness of lower-tier sup-
pliers: Managing sustainability in supply networks. Journal of
Operations Management 64(1): 65–87.
Wang JJ (2020) How managers use culture and controls to impose
a ‘996’ work regime in China that constitutes modern slavery.
Accounting & Finance 60(4): 4331–4359.
W eick KE (1976) Educational organizations as loosely coupled sys-
tems. Administrative Science Quarterly 21(1): 1–19.
Wiengarten F, Pagell M, Durach CF, et al. (2021) Exploring the per-
formance implications of precarious work. Journal of Operations
Management 67(8): 926–963.
Wijen F (2014) Means versus ends in opaque institutional ﬁelds:
Trading off compliance and achievement in sustainability stan-
dard adoption. Academy of Management Review 39(3): 302–323.
Williamson OE (2008) Outsourcing: Transaction cost economics and
supply chain management. Journal of Supply Chain Management
44(2): 5–16.
Wu Z and Jia F (2018) Toward a theory of supply chain ﬁelds – under-
standing the institutional process of supply chain localization.
Journal of Operations Management 58–59: 27–41.
Zorzini M, Hendry LC, Huq F A, et al. (2015) Socially responsible
sourcing: Reviewing the literature and its use of theory. Interna-
tional Journal of Operations & Production Management 35(1):
60–109.
How to cite this article
Marques L, Morais D, T erra A (2023) More Than Meets the
Eye: Misconduct and Decoupling Against Blockchain for Sup-
ply Chain Transparency.Production and Operations Management
34(5): 1057–1075.