--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C14
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 10 to Page 11
Word Range: 3461 - 3710
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 10]
5 
informed choices based  on their dietary preferences.  While NIFT EM and others are 
conducting R&D on Vitamin D3 from plant sources, industry buy-in and the engagement 
of healthcare professionals are needed to help in the commercialisation of such products 
and to spread kn owledge and reduce misconceptions about Vitamin D from plant and 
animal-based sources.  
 Create a Multi -stakeholder Platform to Discuss  and Share Research on  Bioavailability 
and Stability of Vitamin D Forms:  NIFTEM is conducting analysis on the bioavailability, 
stability and absorption rates of different forms of Vitamin D (e.g., D ₂ vs. D₃) in various 
food matrices. However, the food processing industry is often concerned about the 
potential loss of intellectual  property (IP) during the research process; strengthening IP 
protection further is, therefore, essential. A well-designed multi-stakeholder platform can 
facilitate collaboration and serve as a forum for discussing and sharing research in a secure 
and structured manner.  
 Work with ICMR -NIN and FSSAI to Make Vitamin D Fortified Food a part of Dietary 
Guidelines 2024: The 2024 Dietary Guidelines  by ICMR -NIN highlight sunlight as a key 
source of Vitamin D but does not mention food as a vehicle to reduce Vitamin D deficiency. 
MoFPI may work with ICMR-NIN and FSSAI to include Vitamin D rich and fortified foods as 
part of the addendum to 2025 Dietary Guidelines. While it will help the consumer adopt 
a rich diet, it will also help the industry adopt fortification during food processing.  
 Work with Industry to Build Consensus on Mandatory Fortification: It is necessary to 
engage with industry to understand their concerns (such as cost implications, 
reformulation challenges, compliance burden, etc.) and provide targeted support to help 
shift from voluntary to mandatory fortification.    
5.2 Support Research and Innovation in Vitamin D Fortification 
Targeted research and development are essential to support the advancement of Vitamin D 
fortification in India. NIFTEM, in collaboration with  companies like Fermenta Biotech, are 
already working towards developing plant -based sources of Vitamin D. Such collaborations 
may be encouraged. Other areas of research may include the following: 
 Preserving Vitamin D during Cooking:  Vitamin D is relatively stable during cooking; 
however, repeated boiling and exposure to high temperatures, such as those used in slow 
cooking and frying, can reduce the content of Vitamin D in food. This underscores the need 
for further research on the retention of Vitamin D after frying, particularly in the context 
of Indian culinary practices. 
 Exploring Innovative Fortification Techniques:  Techniques such as ultraviolet ( UV) 
exposure of mushrooms to increase their Vitamin D content are already underway. These 
innovations should be studied further to assess how they can be scaled and applied to 
other food processing methods.

[Page 11]
6 
 Develop more Vitamin D Fortified Products: There is a need to develop new Vitamin D -
fortified products, (such as ready-to-eat snacks, protein bars and bakery items) to increase 
options for the consumer. All newly developed fortified products must undergo rigorous 
testing and food trials to ensure they are safe, effective and acceptable to consumers. 
 Comparative Analysis of Vitamin D ₂ and D ₃: R&D can be supported to compare the 
effectiveness, bioavailability and cost-efficiency of Vitamin D₂ and D₃. 
The above  areas of research  require sustained investment and institutional support 
through targeted funding, innovation grants and public -private partnerships. MoFPI can 
play a key role in supporting a nationwide “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”  campaign 
by integrating these research priorities and collaborating with the Ministry of Finance to 
secure dedicated funding for the campaign.    
5.3 Launching Targeted Pilot Programmes through Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships 
The MoFPI may collaborate with ICMR-NIN (MoHFW), Ministry of Women and Child 
Development (MoWCD) and organisations such as GAIN, the Gates Foundation, ANVKA 
Foundation, etc., to launch pilot food fortification projects in high-risk districts and among 
vulnerable population groups. The ICMR-NIN Survey for Assessment of Markers of Population 
Health Activity, Diet and Anthropometry  (SAMPADA)10 can be used to identify the targeted 
districts and vulnerable groups for pilots and fortified foods like biscuits can be given to check 
efficacy, ensuring that portions are controlled.  
5.4 Incentivising Fortified Food Production and Consumption 
The MoFPI can work with the Ministry of Finance to promote the production of Vitamin D 
fortified food by providing nutrition linked incentives to manufacturers for mandatory 
fortification and for R&D in Vitamin D fortified products.  
5.5 Capacity Building of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for Vitamin D 
Fortification 
The MoFPI can strengthen Vitamin D fortification efforts by building the capacity of MSMEs. 
This can be achieved through targeted training programmes, technical support and simplified 
compliance guidance, enabling MSMEs to adopt fortification practices effectively. 
Organisations such as the GAIN can support these efforts by providing toolkits, technological 
assistance and best practices for cost-effective and safe food fortification. 
To conclude, NIFT EM under MoFPI is actively working on food fortification with essential 
micronutrients, including Vitamin D. The MoFPI is well-connected with the food industry and 
by embedding nutrition in food processing and working with other government agencies and 
stakeholders, they can make fortified foods reach the most vulnerable, M oFPI can play a 
transformative role in realising a “Vitamin D Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”. 
                                                           
10  SAMPADA is India’s first diet and bio-marker survey covering 36 States and Union Territories (UTs), with a sample size of 2.5 lakh 
individuals and a sub-sample of 30,000 specifically tested for micronutrient deficiency, including Vitamin D.