--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: A-MOFPI-100-C08
Parent Doc ID: A-MOFPI-100
Page Range: Page 7
Word Range: 1766 - 2015
Word Count: 250
--------------------

[Page 7]
2 
Fortification with Micronutrients” in November 2006, which provides a comprehensive 
framework for implementing and regulating food fortification programmes. 
In India, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has permitted the voluntary 
fortification of milk and edible oil with Vitamin D and mandated its distribution through public 
food procurement schemes (like Mission POSHAN 2.0).6  
The Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI)  is the nodal ministry for processing of 
fortified foods. Under the ministry, institutions such as the National Institute of Food 
Technology Entrepreneurship and Management ( NIFTEM) are already engaged in research 
and development (R&D) on Vitamin D including bioavailability, stability, formulation,  plant-
based D₃, Vitamin D retention during cooking, etc.  Therefore, the ministry can play a key role 
in addressing the deficiency through food-based solutions, particularly fortification. 
3. Vitamin D Fortification Globally: Experiences of Select Countries   
Countries such as Jordan, Nigeria, Sweden, Canada, 
the United States of America (USA) and Finland have 
benefited by fortifying a wide range of products such 
as margarine, milk, cheese, fat spreads, flour, yogurt, 
juices, biscuits, bread, etc., with Vitamin D. Globally, 
there are example s of many multi -stakeholder 
initiatives to address Vitamin D deficiency through 
food fortification. For example, Bangladesh, in 2011, with the support of the European Union 
(EU), introduced a school -based micronutrient fortification programme under which  daily 
packets of Vitamin D-fortified biscuits were provided to children in rural primary schools; this 
has shown positive results in reducing the deficiency (for details see Box 1). 
Box 1: Addressing Micronutrient Deficiency through Partnership: The Case of Bangladesh  
In 2011, the Bangladesh Government, with support from the European Union (EU), launched a 
school-based micronutrient food fortification programme. This initiative targeted children in rural 
primary schools across 10 disadvantaged sub-districts. The intervention provided each child with a 
daily packet of 75g of biscuits fortified with essential micronutrients, including Vitamin D3.  
The programme had a significant positive impact on increasing mean levels of Vitamin D . Mean 
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels increased by 1.1 times.  Fortified biscuits served as an 
effective vehicle for improving Vitamin D levels, as teachers and caregivers reported improved 
attentiveness, energy levels and classroom engagement among students. 
- Adams et al., (2017) 
Studies have shown the positive impact of Vitamin D fortification in reducing the burden of 
Vitamin D deficiency and of diseases related to the deficiency , as well as  improving quality 
                                                           
6  All such fortified products are required to carry the designated ‘+F’ logo.  
“Large scale food fortification is a 
powerful evidence-informed and cost-
effective intervention to fight the 
consequences of vitamin and mineral 
deficiencies”.  
            -WHO (2023)