--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-085-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-085
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 342
Word Count: 342
--------------------

The envoy also met Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu on Monday. "Honoured to make my valedictory call on Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh CM @ncbnGlad to hear more about Hon'ble CM's recent visit to Singapore earlier this month, as well as his plans for AP. Also discussed ways to further strengthen SG-AP collaboration," Pang was quoted as saying by Singapore mission in India on X. Earlier on Friday, the High Commissioner of Singapore to India, Simon Wong Wie Kuenn, expressed excitement over trying the Banganapalle Mango after the first-ever 5 metric tonne shipment from Andhra Pradesh was recieved in Singapore.In a post on X, the High Commissioner announced the arrival of the shipment, facilitated by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA)."Delighted to receive the first ever 5 metric tonne shipment of #BanganapalleMango to Singapore from #AndhraPradesh facilitated by @APEDADOC & ICAR-CISH, #Lucknow. Looking forward to trying it! - HC Wong," the post read.Banganapalle is one of India's most popular mango varieties and is known for its golden-yellow colour, pleasant aroma, fibreless pulp and rich sweetness. The variety enjoys strong demand in international markets and offers significant potential for further growth in exports.APEDA, under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, facilitated the first commercial sea shipment of premium Banganapalle mangoes from India to Singapore, marking a significant step in promoting cost-effective and sustainable exports of Indian horticultural produce.According to an official statement issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry on Thursday, the consignment comprised 5 metric tonnes (MT) of Banganapalle mangoes exported by Osum Food Solutions LLP. The shipment was dispatched on June 11, 2026, and arrived in Singapore on June 24, 2026.The mangoes were sourced from Good Agricultural Practices (GAP)-certified orchards in Andhra Pradesh and were processed and packed at an APEDA-recognised packhouse in Karnataka. The entire consignment was handled in accordance with the quality and phytosanitary requirements prescribed by Singapore.Upon arrival, Singapore-based importer EC-Links Pte Ltd reported excellent fruit quality. The importer appreciated the mangoes for their sweetness, uniform ripening, shelf life and overall phytosanitary condition. (ANI)