--- CHUNK HEADER ---
Chunk ID: B-GD-069-C01
Parent Doc ID: B-GD-069
Page Range: N/A (Web Scraped / Text Extract)
Word Range: 1 - 303
Word Count: 303
--------------------

ANI 21 May 2026, 16:10 GMT+10 Tiruppur (Tamil Nadu) [India], February 19: Reinforcing its vision to reshape India's global trade landscape, rivexa hosted a landmark industry engagement- rivOlution 2026, on 10th February at the Padmashri Dr. A. Sakthivel Auditorium, Tiruppur Exporters' Association (TEA). The event brought industry leaders together to foster dialogue on global trade, digital export ecosystems, and sustainability-driven growth. The engagement showcased how rivexa is enabling seamless cross-border trade and expanding global market access for Indian businesses through technology-driven sourcing and financial solutions. rivexa: Demystifying the World of Exports and Finance The session commenced with Mr. Mainak Sarkar, Marketing Head, rivexa, welcoming the industry leaders and outlining rivexa's vision for a supplier-centric export ecosystem. 'rivOlution 2026 is not just an event, it is a conversation starter for suppliers to understand the entire ecosystem behind global exports, cross-border finance, and payment solutions. This initiative reflects rivexa's commitment to supplier centricity, serving as a powerful platform for industry collaboration and business growth. Through rivexa, we aim to enable exporters to access global opportunities efficiently and scale with confidence,' said Mr. Sarkar. Reinforcing rivexa's long-term vision, Mr. Soumen Baral, Chief, rivexa, highlighted the platform's role as a trusted partner in enabling India sourcing for global buyers and providing a transparent export ecosystem for Indian MSMEs. 'rivexa connects every stakeholder in cross-border trade- manufacturers, global buyers, quality partners, logistics service providers, financial partners- serving as a dedicated sourcing partner in India. With 500+ global buyers across categories, we enable seamless sourcing from India with a data-backed manufacturing edge over competing Asian markets. By showcasing the capabilities of manufacturers based in large clusters such as Tiruppur, rivexa builds digital credibility, visibility, and efficiency. We provide dedicated support for both sides of the supply chain- driving sustainable growth through trust, technology, and reliable execution,' said Mr. Baral.